<h2>
PRELUDE
</h2>

<p>
Mr Sniggs, the Junior Dean, and Mr Postlethwaite, the
Domestic Bursar, sat alone in Mr Sniggs's room overlooking
the garden quad at Scone College.  From the rooms of Sir
Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington, two staircases away,
came a confused roaring and breaking of glass.  They alone
of the senior members of Scone were at home that evening,
for it was the night of the annual dinner of the Bollinger
Club.  The others were all scattered over Boar's Hill and
North Oxford at gay, contentious little parties, or at other
senior common-rooms, or at the meetings of learned societies,
for the annual Bollinger dinner is a difficult time for
those in authority.
</p>

<p>
It is not accurate to call this an annual event, because
quite often the club is suspended for some years after each
meeting.  There is tradition behind the Bollinger; it
numbers reigning kings among its past members.  At the last
dinner, three years ago, a fox had been brought in in a cage
and stoned to death with champagne bottles.  What an
evening that had been!  This was the first meeting since then,
and from all over Europe old members had rallied for the
occasion.  For two days they had been pouring into Oxford:
epileptic royalty from their villas of exile; uncouth peers
from crumbling country seats; smooth young men of uncertain
tastes from embassies and legations; illiterate lairds
from wet granite hovels in the Highlands; ambitious young
barristers and Conservative candidates torn from the London
season and the indelicate advances of debutantes; all that
was most sonorous of name and title was there for the
beano.'
</p>

<p>
'The fines!' said Mr Sniggs, gently rubbing his pipe along
the side of his nose.  'Oh, my! the fines there'll be after this
evening!'
</p>

<p>
There is some very particular port in the senior common-room
cellars that is only brought up when the College fines
have reached £50.
</p>

<p>
'We shall have a week of it at least,' said Mr Postlethwaite,
'a week of Founder's port.'
</p>

<p>
A shriller note could now be heard rising from Sir
Alastair's rooms, any who have heard that sound will shrink
at the recollection of it; it is the sound of the English
county families baying for broken glass.  Soon they would
all be tumbling out into the quad, crimson and roaring in
their bottle-green evening coats, for the real romp of the
evening.
</p>

<p>
'Don't you think it might be wiser if we turned out the
light?' said Mr Sniggs.
</p>

<p>
In darkness the two dons crept to the window.  The quad
below was a kaleidoscope of dimly discernible faces.
</p>

<p>
'There must be fifty of them at least,' said Mr Postlethwaite.
'If only they were all members of the College!
Fifty of them at ten pounds each.  Oh my!'
</p>

<p>
'It'll be more if they attack the Chapel,' said Mr Sniggs.
'Oh, please God, make them attack the Chapel.'
</p>

<p>
'I wonder who the unpopular undergraduates are this
term.  They always attack their rooms.  I hope they have
been wise enough to go out for the evening.'
</p>

<p>
'I think Partridge will be one; he possesses a painting by
Matisse or some such name.'
</p>

<p>
'And I'm told he has black sheets in his bed.'
</p>

<p>
'And Sanders went to dinner with Ramsay MacDonald once.'
</p>

<p>
'And Rending can afford to hunt, but collects chain
instead.'
</p>

<p>
'And smokes cigars in the garden after breakfast.'
</p>

<p>
'Austen has a grand piano.'
</p>

<p>
'They'll enjoy smashing that.'
</p>

<p>
'There'll be a heavy bill for tonight, just you see!  But I
confess I should feel easier if the Dean or the Master were
in.  They can't see us from here, can they?'
</p>

<p>
It was a lovely evening.  They broke up Mr Austen's
grand piano, and stamped Lord Rending's cigars into his
carpet, and smashed his china, and tore up Mr Partridge's
sheets, and threw the Matisse into his water-jug; Mr Sanders
had nothing to break except his windows, but they found the
manuscript at which he had been working for the Newdigate
Prize Poem, and had great fun with that.  Sir Alastair
Digby-Vaine-Trumpington felt quite ill with excitement,
and was supported to bed by Lumsden of Strathdrummond.
It was half-past eleven.  Soon the evening would come to an
end.  But there was still a treat to come.
</p>

<p>
Paul Pennyfeather was reading for the Church.  It was his
second year of uneventful residence at Scone.  He had come
there after a creditable career at a small public-school of
ecclesiastical temper on the South Downs, where he had
edited the magazine, been President of the Debating Society,
and had, as his report said, 'exercised a wholesome influence
for good' in which he was head boy.  At home
he lived in Onslow Square with his guardian, a prosperous
solicitor who was proud of his progress and abysmally bored
by his company.  Both his parents had died in India at the
time when he won the essay prize at his preparatory school.
For two years he had lived within his allowance, aided by
two valuable scholarships.  He smoked three ounces of
tobacco a week—John Cotton, Medium—and drank a pint
and a half of beer a day, the half at luncheon and the pint
at dinner, a meal he invariably ate in Hall.  He had four
friends, three of whom had been at school with him.  None
of the Bollinger Club had ever heard of Paul Pennyfeather,
and he, oddly enough, had not heard of them.
</p>

<p>
Little suspecting the incalculable consequences that the
evening was to have for him, he bicycled happily back from
a meeting of the League of Nations Union.  There had been
a most interesting paper about plebiscites in Poland.  He
thought of smoking a pipe and reading another chapter of
the <i>Forsyte Saga</i> before going to bed.  He knocked at the
gate, was admitted, put away his bicycle, and diffidently,
as always, made his way across the quad towards his rooms.
What a lot of people there seemed to be about!  Paul had no
particular objection to drunkenness—he had read rather a
daring paper to the Thomas More Society on the subject—but
he was consumedly shy of drunkards.
</p>

<p>
Out of the night Lumsden of Strathdrummond swayed
across his path like a druidical rocking-stone.  Paul tried to
pass.
</p>

<p>
Now it so happened that the tie of Paul's old school bore
a marked resemblance to the pale blue and white of the
Bollinger Club.  The difference of a quarter of an inch in the
width of the stripes was not one that Lumsden of
Strathdrummond was likely to appreciate.
</p>

<p>
'Here's an awful man wearing the Boller tie,' said the
Laird.  It is not for nothing that since pre-Christian times his
family has exercised chieftainship over unchartered miles of
barren moorland.
</p>

<p>
Mr Sniggs was looking rather apprehensively at Mr
Postlethwaite.
</p>

<p>
'They appear to have caught somebody,' he said.  'I hope
they don't do him any serious harm.'
</p>

<p>
'Dear me, can it be Lord Rending?  I think I ought to
intervene.'
</p>

<p>
'No, Sniggs,' said Mr Postlethwaite, laying a hand on his
impetuous colleague's arm.  'No, no, no.  It would be unwise.
We have the prestige of the senior common-room to consider.
In their present state they might not prove amenable
to discipline.  We must at all costs avoid an <i>outrage</i>.'
</p>

<p>
At length the crowd parted, and Mr Sniggs gave a sigh of relief.
</p>

<p>
'But it's quite all right.  It isn't Rending.  It's
Pennyfeather—someone of no importance.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, that saves a great deal of trouble.  I am glad,
Sniggs, I am, really.  What a lot of clothes the young man
appears to have lost!'
</p>

<p>
Next morning there was a lovely College meeting.
</p>

<p>'Two hundred and thirty pounds,' murmured the Domestic
Bursar ecstatically, '<i>not</i> counting the damage!  That means
five evenings, with what we have already collected.  Five
evenings of Founder's port!'
</p>

<p>
'The case of Pennyfeather,' the Master was saying, 'seems
to be quite a different matter altogether.  He ran the whole
length of the quadrangle, you say, <i>without his trousers</i>.
It is umseemly. It is more, it is indecent. In fact, I am
almost prepared to say that it is flagrantly indecent. It is
<i>not</i> the conduct we expect of a scholar.'
</p>

<p>
'Perhaps if we fined him really heavily?' suggested the
Junior Dean.
</p>

<p>
'I very much doubt whether he could pay.  I understand
he is not well off.  <i>Without trousers</i>, indeed!  And at that time
of night!  I think we should do far better to get rid of him
altogether.  That sort of young man does the College no
good.'
</p>

<p>
Two hours later, while Paul was packing his three suits in
his little leather trunk, the Domestic Bursar sent a message
that he wished to see him.
</p>

<p>
'Ah, Mr Pennyfeather,' he said, 'I have examined your
rooms and notice two slight burns, one on the window-sill
and the other on the chimney-piece, no doubt from cigarette
ends.  I am charging you five and sixpence for each of them
on your battels.  That is all, thank you.'
</p>

<p>
As he crossed the quad Paul met Mr Sniggs.
</p>

<p>
'Just off?' said the Junior Dean brightly.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, sir,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
And a little further on he met the Chaplain.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, Pennyfeather, before you go, surely you have my
copy of Dean Stanley's <i>Eastern Church</i>?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.  I left it on your table.'
</p>

<p>
'Thank you.  Well, goodbye, my dear boy.  I suppose that
after that reprehensible affair last night you will have to
think of some other profession.  Well, you may congratulate
yourself that you discovered your unfitness for the priesthood
before it was too late.  If a parson does a thing of that
sort, you know, all the world knows.  And so many do, alas!
What do you propose doing?'
</p>

<p>
'I don't really know yet.'
</p>

<p>
'There is always commerce, of course.  Perhaps you may
be able to bring to the great world of business some of the
ideals you have learned at Scone.  But it won't be easy, you
know.  It is a thing to be lived down with courage.  What did
Dr Johnson say about fortitude? ... Dear, dear! <i>no trousers</i>!'
</p>

<p>
At the gates Paul tipped the porter.
</p>

<p>
'Well, goodbye, Blackall,' he said.  'I don't suppose I shall
see you again for some time.'
</p>

<p>
'No, sir, and very sorry I am to hear about it.  I expect
you'll be becoming a schoolmaster, sir.  That's what most of
the gentlemen does, sir, that gets sent down for indecent
behaviour.'
</p>

<p>
'God damn and blast them all to hell,' said Paul meekly
to himself as he drove to the station, and then he felt rather
ashamed, because he rarely swore.
</p>

<h2>
Part One
</h2>

<h3>
CHAPTER I
<br/>
<i>Vocation</i>
</h3>

<p>
'Sent down for indecent behaviour, eh?' said Paul Pennyfeather's
guardian.  'Well, thank God your poor father has
been spared this disgrace.  That's all I can say.'
</p>

<p>
There was a hush in Onslow Square, unbroken except by
Paul's guardian's daughter's gramophone playing Gilbert
and Sullivan in her little pink boudoir at the top of the
stairs.
</p>

<p>
'My daughter must know nothing of this,' continued
Paul's guardian.
</p>

<p>
There was another pause.
</p>

<p>
'Well,' he resumed, 'you know the terms of your father's
will.  He left the sum of five thousand pounds, the interest of
which was to be devoted to your education and the sum to
be absolutely yours on your twenty-first birthday.  That, if
I am right, falls in eleven months' time.  In the event of
your education being finished before that time, he left me
with complete discretion to withhold this allowance should
I not consider your course of life satisfactory.  I do not think
that I should be fulfilling the trust which your poor father
placed in me if, in the present circumstances, I continued
any allowance.  Moreover, you will be the first to realize how
impossible it would be for me to ask you to share the same
home with my daughter.'
</p>

<p>
'But what is to happen to me?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I think you ought to find some work,' said his guardian
thoughtfully.  'Nothing like it for taking the mind off nasty
subjects.'
</p>

<p>
'But what kind of work?'
</p>

<p>
'Just work, good healthy toil.  You have led too sheltered
a life, Paul.  Perhaps I am to blame.  It will do you the world
of good to face facts for a bit—look at life in the raw, you
know.  See things steadily and see them whole, eh?'  And
Paul's guardian lit another cigar.
</p>

<p>
'Have I no legal right to any money at all?' asked
Paul.
</p>

<p>
'None whatever, my dear boy,' said his guardian quite
cheerfully....
</p>

<p>
That spring Paul's guardian's daughter had two new
evening frocks and, thus glorified, became engaged to a
well-conducted young man in the Office of Works.
</p>

<p>
'Sent down for indecent behaviour, eh?' said Mr Levy, of
Church and Gargoyle, scholastic agents.  'Well, I don't think
we'll say anything about that.  In fact, officially, mind, you
haven't told me.  We call that sort of thing "Education
discontinued for personal reasons", you understand.'  He
picked up the telephone.  'Mr Samson, have we any "education
discontinued" posts, male, on hand? ... Right! ... Bring
it up, will you?  I think,' he added, turning again to
Paul, 'we have just the thing for you.'
</p>

<p>
A young man brought in a slip of paper.
</p>

<p>
'What about that?'
</p>

<p>
Paul read it:
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Private and Confidential Notice of Vacancy.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Augustus Fagan, Esquire, Ph.D., Llanabba Castle, N. Wales,
requires immediately Junior assistant master to teach
Classics and English to University Standard with subsidiary
Mathematics, German and French.  Experience essential;
first-class games essential.</i>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
STATUS OF SCHOOL: <i>School</i>.
</p>

<p class="noindent">
SALARY OFFERED: £120 <i>resident post</i>.
</p>

<p>
<i>Reply promptly but carefully to Dr Fagan ('Esq., Ph.D.',
on envelope), enclosing copies of testimonials and photograph,
if considered advisable, mentioning that you have heard of the
vacancy through us.</i>
</p>

<p>
'Might have been made for you,' said Mr Levy.
</p>

<p>
'But I don't know a word of German, I've had no experience,
I've got no testimonials, and I can't play cricket.'
</p>

<p>
'It doesn't do to be too modest,' said Mr Levy.  'It's
wonderful what one can teach when one tries.  Why, only
last term we sent a man who had never been in a laboratory
in his life as senior Science Master to one of our leading
public-schools.  He came wanting to do private coaching in
music.  He's doing very well, I believe.  Besides, Dr Fagan
can't expect <i>all</i> that for the salary he's offering.  Between
ourselves, Llanabba hasn't a good name in the profession.
We class schools, you see, into four grades: Leading School,
First-rate School, Good School, and School.  Frankly,' said
Mr Levy, 'School is pretty bad.  I think you'll find it a very
suitable post.  So far as I know, there are only two other
candidates, and one of them is totally deaf, poor fellow.'
</p>

<p>
Next day Paul went to Church and Gargoyle to interview
Dr Fagan.  He had not long to wait.  Dr Fagan was already
there interviewing the other candidates.  After a few
minutes Mr Levy led Paul into the room, introduced him,
and left them together.
</p>

<p>
'A most exhaustive interview,' said Dr Fagan.  'I am sure
he was a very nice young man, but I could not make
him understand a word I said.  Can <i>you</i> hear me quite
clearly?'
</p>

<p>
'Perfectly, thank you.'
</p>

<p>
'Good; then let us get to business.'
</p>

<p>
Paul eyed him shyly across the table.  He was very tall and
very old and very well dressed; he had sunken eyes and
rather long white hair over jet black eyebrows.  His head
was very long, and swayed lightly as he spoke; his voice had
a thousand modulations, as though at some remote time he
had taken lessons in elocution; the backs of his hands were
hairy, and his fingers were crooked like claws.
</p>

<p>
'I understand you have had no previous experience?'
</p>

<p>
'No, sir, I am afraid not.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, of course, that is in many ways an advantage.  One
too easily acquires the professional tone and loses vision.
But of course we must be practical.  I am offering a salary
of one hundred and twenty pounds, but only to a man with
experience.  I have a letter here from a young man who
holds a diploma in forestry.  He wants an extra ten pounds a
year on the strength of it, but it is vision I need, Mr
Pennyfeather, not diplomas.  I understand, too, that you left your
University rather suddenly.  Now—why was that?'
</p>

<p>
This was the question that Paul had been dreading, and,
true to his training, he had resolved upon honesty.
</p>

<p>
'I was sent down, sir, for indecent behaviour.'
</p>

<p>
'Indeed, indeed?  Well, I shall not ask for details.  I have
been in the scholastic profession long enough to know that
nobody enters it unless he has some very good reason which
he is anxious to conceal.  But, again to be practical, Mr
Pennyfeather, I can hardly pay one hundred and twenty
pounds to anyone who has been sent down for indecent
behaviour.  Suppose that we fix your salary at ninety pounds
a year to begin with?  I have to return to Llanabba tonight.
There are six more weeks of term, you see, and I have lost
a master rather suddenly.  I shall expect you tomorrow
evening.  There is an excellent train from Euston that leaves at
about ten.  I think you will like your work,' he continued
dreamily; 'you will find that my school is built upon an
ideal—an ideal of service and fellowship.  Many of the boys
come from the very best families.  Little Lord Tangent has
come to us this term, the Earl of Circumference's son, you
know.  Such a nice little chap, erratic, of course, like all his
family, but he has <i>tone</i>.'  Dr Fagan gave a long sigh.  'I wish
I could say the same for my staff.  Between ourselves,
Pennyfeather, I think I shall have to get rid of Grimes fairly
soon.  He is not out of the top drawer, and boys notice these
things.  Now, your predecessor was a thoroughly agreeable
young man.  I was sorry to lose him.  But he used to wake
up my daughters coming back on his motor bicycle at all
hours of the night.  He used to borrow money from the boys,
too, quite large sums, and the parents objected.  I had to get
rid of him....  Still, I was very sorry.  <i>He</i> had tone.'
</p>

<p>
Dr Fagan rose, put on his hat at a jaunty angle, and drew
on a glove.
</p>

<p>
'Goodbye, my dear Pennyfeather.  I think, in fact I know,
that we are going to work well together.  I can always tell
these things.'
</p>

<p>
'Goodbye, sir,' said Paul....
</p>

<p>
'Five per cent. of ninety pounds is four pounds ten
shillings,' said Mr Levy cheerfully.  'You can pay now or on
receipt of your first term's salary.  If you pay now there is
a reduction of fifteen per cent.  That would be three pounds
six shillings and sixpence.'
</p>

<p>
'I'll pay you when I get my wages,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Just as you please,' said Mr Levy.  'Only too glad to have
been of use to you.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER II
<br/>
<i>Llanabba Castle</i>
</h3>

<p>
Llanabba Castle presents two quite different aspects,
according as you approach it from the Bangor or the coast
road.  From the back it looks very much like any other large
country house, with a great many windows and a terrace,
and a chain of glass houses and the roofs of innumerable
nondescript kitchen buildings disappearing into the trees.
But from the front—and that is how it is approached from
Llanabba station—it is formidably feudal; one drives past
at least a mile of machicolated wall before reaching the
gates; these are towered and turreted and decorated with
heraldic animals and a workable portcullis.  Beyond them at
the end of the avenue stands the Castle, a model of medieval
impregnability.
</p>

<p>
The explanation of this rather striking contrast is simple
enough.  At the time of the cotton famine in the 'sixties
Llanabba House was the property of a prosperous Lancashire
millowner.  His wife could not bear to think of their men
starving; in fact, she and her daughters organized a little
bazaar in their aid, though without very substantial results.
Her husband had read the Liberal economists and could not
think of paying without due return.  Accordingly 'enlightened
self-interest' found a way.  An encampment of mill
hands was settled in the park, and they were put to work
walling the grounds and facing the house with great blocks
of stone from a neighbouring quarry.  At the end of the
American war they returned to their mills, and Llanabba
House became Llanabba Castle after a great deal of work
had been done very cheaply.
</p>

<p>
Driving up from the station in a little closed taxi, Paul
saw little of all this.  It was almost dark in the avenue and
quite dark inside the house.
</p>

<p>
'I am Mr Pennyfeather,' he said to the butler.  'I have
come here as a master.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said the butler, 'I know all about you.  This way.'
</p>

<p>
They went down a number of passages, unlit and smelling
obscurely of all the ghastly smells of school, until they
reached a brightly lighted door.
</p>

<p>
'In there.  That's the Common Room.'  Without more
ado, the butler made off into the darkness.
</p>

<p>
Paul looked round.  It was not a very big room.  Even he
felt that, and all his life he had been accustomed to living
in constricted spaces.
</p>

<p>
'I wonder how many people live here,' he thought, and
with a sick thrust of apprehension counted sixteen pipes in
a rack at the side of the chimney-piece.  Two gowns hung
on a hook behind the door.  In a corner were some golf clubs,
a walking stick, an umbrella and two miniature rifles.  Over
the chimney-piece was a green baize notice-board covered
with lists; there was a typewriter on the table.  In a
bookcase were a number of very old text-books and some new
exercise-books.  There were also a bicycle-pump, two armchairs,
a straight chair, half a bottle of invalid port, a boxing
glove, a bowler hat, yesterday's <i>Daily News</i> and a packet of
pipe-cleaners.
</p>

<p>
Paul sat down disconsolately on the straight chair.
</p>

<p>
Presently there was a knock at the door, and a small boy
came in.
</p>

<p>
'Oh!' he said, looking at Paul intently.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I was looking for Captain Grimes,' said the little boy.
</p>

<p>
'Oh!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
The child continued to look at Paul with a penetrating,
impersonal interest.
</p>

<p>
'I suppose you're the new master?' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.  'I'm called Pennyfeather.'
</p>

<p>
The little boy gave a shrill laugh.  'I think that's terribly
funny,' he said, and went away.
</p>

<p>
Presently the door opened again, and two more boys
looked in.  They stood and giggled for a time and then made
off.
</p>

<p>
In the course of the next half-hour six or seven boys
appeared on various pretexts and stared at Paul.
</p>

<p>
Then a bell rang, and there was a terrific noise of
whistling and scampering.  The door opened, and a very short
man of about thirty came into the Common Room.  He had
made a great deal of noise in coming because he had an
artificial leg.  He had a short red moustache, and was slightly
bald.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I’m Captain Grimes,' said the newcomer, and 'Come in, you,' he added to someone outside.
</p>

<p>
Another boy came in.
</p>

<p>
'What do you mean,' said Grimes, 'by whistling when I told
you to stop?'
</p>

<p>
'Everyone else was whistling,' said the boy.
</p>

<p>
'What's that got to do with it?' he said.
</p>

<p>
'I should think it had a lot to do with it,' said the boy.
</p>

<p>
'Well, just you do a hundred lines, and next time,
remember, I shall beat you,' he said, 'with this,' he said,
waving the walking stick.
</p>

<p>
'That wouldn't hurt much,' said the boy, and went out.
</p>

<p>
'There's no discipline in the place,' said Grimes, and
then he went out too.
</p>

<p>
'I wonder whether I'm going to enjoy being a schoolmaster,'
thought Paul.
</p>

<p>
Quite soon another and older man came into the room.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' he said to Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I'm Prendergast,' said the newcomer. 'Have some port?'
</p>

<p>
'Thank you, I'd love to.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, there's only one glass.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, well, it doesn't matter, then.'
</p>

<p>
'You might get your tooth-glass from your bedroom.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't know where that is.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, well, never mind; we'll have some another night.
I suppose you're the new master?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'You'll hate it here.  I know.  I've been here ten years.
Grimes only came this term.  He hates it already.  Have you
seen Grimes?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I think so.'
</p>

<p>
'He isn't a gentleman.  Do you smoke?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'A pipe, I mean.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'Those are my pipes.  Remind me to show them to you
after dinner.'
</p>

<p>
At this moment the butler appeared with a message that
Dr Fagan wished to see Mr Pennyfeather.
</p>

<p>
Dr Fagan's part of the Castle was more palatial.  He stood
at the end of a long room with his back to a rococo marble
chimney-piece; he wore a velvet dinner-jacket.
</p>

<p>
'Settling in?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
Sitting before the fire, with a glass bottle of sweets in her
lap, was a brightly dressed woman in early middle age.
</p>

<p>
'That,' said Dr Fagan with some disgust, 'is my daughter.'
</p>

<p>
'Pleased to meet you,' said Miss Fagan.  'Now what I
always tell the young chaps as comes here is, "Don't let the
dad overwork you."  He's a regular Tartar, is Dad, but then
you know what scholars are—inhuman.  Ain't you,' said
Miss Fagan, turning on her father with sudden
ferocity—'ain't you inhuman?'
</p>

<p>
'At times, my dear, I am grateful for what little detachment
I have achieved.  But here,' he added, 'is my other
daughter.'
</p>

<p>
Silently, except for a scarcely perceptible jingling of keys,
another woman had entered the room.  She was younger
than her sister, but far less gay.
</p>

<p>
'How do you do?' she said.  'I do hope you have brought
some soap with you.  I asked my father to tell you, but he so
often forgets these things.  Masters are not supplied with
soap or with boot polish or with washing over two shillings
and sixpence weekly.  Do you take sugar in your tea?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, usually.'
</p>

<p>
'I will make a note of that and have two extra lumps put
out for you.  Don't let the boys get them, though.'
</p>

<p>
'I have put you in charge of the fifth form for the rest of
this term,' said Dr Fagan.  'You will find them delightful
boys, quite delightful.  Clutterbuck wants watching, by the
way, a very delicate little chap.  I have also put you in charge
of the games, the carpentering class and the fire drill.  And
I forget, do you teach music?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I'm afraid not.'
</p>

<p>
'Unfortunate, most unfortunate.  I understood from Mr
Levy that you did.  I have arranged for you to take
Beste-Chetwynde in organ lessons twice a week.  Well, you must
do the best you can.  There goes the bell for dinner.  I won't
detain you.  Oh, one other thing.  Not a word to the boys,
please, about the reasons for your leaving Oxford!  We
schoolmasters must temper discretion with deceit.  There, I
fancy I have said something for you to think about.  Good
night.'
</p>

<p>
'Tootle-oo,' said the elder Miss Fagan.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER III
<br/>
<i>Captain Grimes</i>
</h3>

<p>
Paul had very little difficulty in finding the dining-hall.
He was guided there by the smell of cooking and the sound
of voices.  It was a large, panelled room, far from disagreeable,
with fifty or sixty boys of ages ranging from ten to
eighteen settled along four long tables. The smaller ones wore
Eton suits, the elder ones dinner-jackets.
</p>

<p>
He was led to a place at the head of one of the tables.
The boys on either side of him stood up very politely
until he sat down.  One of them was the boy who had
whistled at Captain Grimes.  Paul thought he rather liked
him.
</p>

<p>
'I'm called Beste-Chetwynde,' he said.
</p>

<p>
'I've got to teach you the organ, I believe.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, it's great fun: we play in the village church.  Do you
play terribly well?'
</p>

<p>
Paul felt this was not a moment for candour, and so,
'tempering discretion with deceit', he said, 'Yes, remarkably
well.'
</p>

<p>
'I say, do you really, or are you rotting?'
</p>

<p>
'Indeed, I'm not.  I used to give lessons to the Master of
Scone.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, you won't be able to teach me much,' said Beste-Chetwynde
cheerfully.  'I only do it to get off gym.  I say,
they haven't given you a napkin.  These servants are
too awful.  Philbrick,' he shouted to the butler, 'why haven't
you given Mr Pennyfeather a napkin?'
</p>

<p>
'Forgot,' said Philbrick, 'and it's too late now because
Miss Fagan's locked the linen up.'
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!' said Beste-Chetwynde, 'go and get one at
once.  That man's all right, really,' he added, 'only he wants
watching.'
</p>

<p>
In a few minutes Philbrick returned with the napkin.
</p>

<p>
'It seems to me that you're a remarkably intelligent boy,'
said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Captain Grimes doesn't think so.  He says I'm half-witted.
I'm glad you're not like Captain Grimes.  He's so
common, don't you think?'
</p>

<p>
'You mustn't talk about the other masters like that in
front of me.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, that's what we all think about him, anyway.
What's more, he wears combinations.  I saw it in his
washing-book one day when I was fetching him his hat.  I think
combinations are rather awful, don't you?'
</p>

<p>
There was a commotion at the end of the hall.
</p>

<p>
'I expect that's Clutterbuck being sick,' said
Beste-Chetwynde.  'He's usually sick when we have mutton.'
</p>

<p>
The boy on Paul's other side now spoke for the first time.
</p>

<p>
'Mr Prendergast wears a wig,' he said, and then became
very confused and subsided into a giggle.
</p>

<p>
'That's Briggs,' said Beste-Chetwynde, 'only everyone
calls him Brolly, because of the shop, you know.'
</p>

<p>
'They're silly rotters,' said Briggs.
</p>

<p>
All this was a great deal easier than Paul had expected;
it didn't seem so very hard to get on with boys, after
all.
</p>

<p>
After a time they all stood up, and amid considerable noise
Mr Prendergast said grace.  Someone called out 'Prendy!'
very loudly just by Paul's ear.
</p>

<p>
'... <i>per Christum Dominum nostrum.  Amen</i>,' said Mr
Prendergast.  'Beste-Chetwynde, was that you who made
that noise?'
</p>

<p>
'Me, sir?  No, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Pennyfeather, did Beste-Chetwynde make that noise?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I don't think so,' said Paul, and Beste-Chetwynde
gave him a friendly look, because, as a matter of fact, he
had.
</p>

<p>
Captain Grimes linked arms with him outside the dining-hall.
</p>

<p>
'Filthy meal, isn't it, old boy?' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Pretty bad,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Prendy's on duty tonight.  I'm off to the pub.  How
about you?'
</p>

<p>
'All right,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Prendy's not so bad in his way,' said Grimes, 'but he
can't keep order.  Of course, you know he wears a wig.  Very
hard for a man with a wig to keep order.  I've got a false leg,
but that's different.  Boys respect that.  Think I lost it in the
war.  Actually,' said the Captain, 'and strictly between
ourselves, mind, I was run over by a tram in Stoke-on-Trent
when I was one-over-the-eight.  Still, it doesn't do to let that
out to everyone.  Funny thing, but I feel I can trust you.
I think we're going to be pals.'
</p>

<p>
'I hope so,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I've been feeling the need of a pal for some time.  The
bloke before you wasn't bad—a bit stand-offish, though.  He
had a motor-bike, you see.  The daughters of the house didn't
care for him.  Have you met Miss Fagan?'
</p>

<p>
'I've met two.'
</p>

<p>
'They're both bitches,' said Grimes, and added moodily,
'I'm engaged to be married to Flossie.'
</p>

<p>
'Good God!  Which is she?'
</p>

<p>
'The elder.  The boys call them Flossie and Dingy.  We
haven't told the old boy yet.  I'm waiting till I land in the
soup again.  Then I shall play that as my last card.  I generally
get into the soup sooner or later.  Here's the pub.  Not such
a bad little place in its way.  Clutterbuck's father makes all
the beer round here.  Not bad stuff, either.  Two pints,
please, Mrs Roberts!'
</p>

<p>
In the further corner sat Philbrick, talking volubly in
Welsh to a shady-looking old man.
</p>

<p>
'Damned cheek his coming in here!' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
Mrs Roberts brought them their beer.  Grimes took a long
draught and sighed happily.
</p>

<p>
'This looks like being the first end of term I've seen for
two years,' he said dreamily.  'Funny thing, I can always get
on all right for about six weeks, and then I land in the soup.
I don't believe I was ever meant by Nature to be a schoolmaster.
Temperament,' said Grimes, with a far-away look in
his eyes—'that's been my trouble, temperament and sex.'
</p>

<p>
'Is it quite easy to get another job after—after you've
been in the soup?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Not at first, it isn't, but there're ways.  Besides, you see,
I'm a public-school man.  That means everything.  There's a
blessed equity in the English social system,' said Grimes,
'that ensures the public-school man against starvation.  One
goes through four or five years of perfect hell at an age
when life is bound to be hell, anyway, and after that the
social system never lets one down.
</p>

<p>
'Not that I stood four or five years of it, mind; I got the
push soon after my sixteenth birthday.  But my house-master
was a public-school man.  He knew the system.  "Grimes," he
said, "I can't keep you in the House after what has happened.
I have the other boys to consider.  But I don't want to be too
hard on you.  I want you to start again."  So he sat down
there and then and wrote me a letter of recommendation to
any future employer, a corking good letter, too.  I've got it
still.  It's been very useful at one time or another.  That's
the public-school system all over.  They may kick you out,
but they never let you down.
</p>

<p>
'I subscribed a guinea to the War Memorial Fund.  I felt
I owed it to them.  I was really sorry,' said Grimes, 'that that
cheque never got through.
</p>

<p>
'After that I went into business.  Uncle of mine had a
brush factory at Edmonton.  Doing pretty well before the
war.  That put the lid on the brush trade for me.  You're too
young to have been in the war, I suppose?  Those were days,
old boy.  We shan't see the like of them again.  I don't
suppose I was really sober for more than a few hours for the
whole of that war.  Then I got into the soup again, pretty
badly that time.  Happened over in France.  They said,
"Now, Grimes, you've got to behave like a gentleman.  We
don't want a court-martial in this regiment.  We're going to
leave you alone for half an hour.  There's your revolver.
You know what to do.  Goodbye, old man," they said quite
affectionately.
</p>

<p>
'Well, I sat there for some time looking at that revolver.
I put it up to my head twice, but each time I brought it
down again.  "Public school men don't end like this," I said
to myself.  It was a long half hour, but luckily they had left
a decanter of whisky in there with me.  They'd all had a
few, I think.  That's what made them all so solemn.  There
wasn't much whisky left when they came back, and, what
with that and the strain of the situation, I could only laugh
when they came in.  Silly thing to do, but they looked so
surprised, seeing me there alive and drunk.
</p>

<p>
'"The man's a cad," said the colonel, but even then I
couldn't stop laughing, so they put me under arrest and
called a court-martial.
</p>

<p>
'I must say I felt pretty low next day.  A major came over
from another battalion to try my case.  He came to see me
first, and bless me if it wasn't a cove I'd known at school.
</p>

<p>
'"God bless my soul," he said, "if it isn't Grimes of
Podger's!  What's all this nonsense about a court-martial?"  So
I told him.  "H'm," he said, "pretty bad.  Still it's out of
the question to shoot an old Harrovian.  I'll see what I can
do about it."  And next day I was sent to Ireland on a pretty
cushy job connected with postal service.  That saw me out
as far as the war was concerned.  You can't get into the soup
in Ireland, do what you like.  I don't know if all this bores
you?'
</p>

<p>
'Not at all,' said Paul.  'I think it's most encouraging.'
</p>

<p>
'I've been in the soup pretty often since then, but never
quite so badly.  Someone always turns up and says, "I can't
see a public-school man down and out.  Let me put you on
your feet again."  I should think,' said Grimes, 'I've been
put on my feet more often than any living man.'
</p>

<p>
Philbrick came across the bar parlour towards them.
</p>

<p>
'Feeling onlely?' he said. I've been talking to the
station-master here, and if either of you ever
wants an introduction to a young lady—'
</p>

<p>
'Certainly not,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, all right,' said Philbrick, making off.
</p>

<p>
'Women are an enigma,' said Grimes, 'as far as Grimes
is concerned.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER IV
<br/>
Mr Prendergast
</h3>

<p>
Paul was awakened next morning by a loud bang on his
door, and Beste-Chetwynde looked in.  He was wearing a
very expensive-looking Charvet dressing-gown.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, sir,' he said.  'I thought I'd come and tell
you, as you wouldn't know: there's only one bath-room for
the masters.  If you want to get there before Mr Prendergast,
you ought to go now.  Captain Grimes doesn't wash much,'
he added, and then disappeared.
</p>

<p>
Paul went to the bath and was rewarded some minutes
later by hearing the shuffling of slippers down the passage
and the door furiously rattled.
</p>

<p>
As he was dressing Philbrick appeared.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I forgot to call you.  Breakfast is in ten minutes.'
</p>

<p>
After breakfast Paul went up to the Common Room.  Mr
Prendergast was there polishing his pipes, one by one, with
a chamois leather.  He looked reproachfully at Paul.
</p>

<p>
'We must come to some arrangement about the bathroom,'
he said.  'Grimes very rarely has a bath.  I have one
before breakfast.'
</p>

<p>
'So do I,' said Paul defiantly.
</p>

<p>
'Then I suppose I shall have to find some other time,'
said Mr Prendergast, and he gave a deep sigh as he returned
his attention to his pipes.  'After ten years, too,' he added,
'but everything's like that.  I might have known you'd want
the bath.  It was so easy when there was only Grimes and
that other young man.  He was never down in time for
breakfast.  Oh dear! oh dear!  I can see that things are going
to be very difficult.'
</p>

<p>
'But surely we could both have one?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, that's out of the question.  It's all part of the same
thing.  Everything has been like this since I left the ministry.'
</p>

<p>
Paul made no answer, and Mr Prendergast went on
breathing and rubbing.
</p>

<p>
'I expect you wonder how I came to be here?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no,' said Paul soothingly.  'I think it's very natural.'
</p>

<p>
'It's not natural at all; it's most unnatural.  If things had
happened a little differently I should be a rector with my
own house and bath-room.  I might even have been a rural
dean, only'—and Mr Prendergast dropped his voice to a
whisper—'only I had <i>Doubts</i>.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't know why I'm telling you all this; nobody else
knows.  I somehow feel you'll understand.
</p>

<p>
'Ten years ago I was a clergyman of the Church of England.
I had just been presented to a living in Worthing.  It
was such an attractive church, not old, but <i>very</i> beautifully
decorated, six candles on the altar, Reservation in the Lady
Chapel, and an excellent heating apparatus which burned
coke in a little shed by the sacristy door; no graveyard, just
a hedge of golden privet between the church and the
rectory.
</p>

<p>
'As soon as I moved in my mother came to keep house
for me.  She bought some chintz, out of her own money, for
the drawing-room curtains.  She used to be "at home" once
a week to the ladies of the congregation.  One of them, the
dentist's wife, gave me a set of the <i>Encyclopaedia Britannica</i>
for my study.  It was all very pleasant until my <i>Doubts</i>
began.'
</p>

<p>
'Were they as bad as all that?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'They were insuperable,' said Mr Prendergast, 'that is
why I am here now.  But I expect I am boring you?'
</p>

<p>
'No, do go on.  That's to say, unless you find it painful to
think about.'
</p>

<p>
'I think about it all the time.  It happened like this, quite
suddenly.  We had been there about three months, and my
mother had made great friends with some people called
Bundle—rather a curious name.  I think he was an insurance
agent until he retired.  Mrs Bundle used very kindly to ask
us in to supper on Sundays after Evensong.  They were
pleasant, informal gatherings, and I used quite to look
forward to them.  I can see them now as they sat there on this
particular evening; there was my mother and Mr and Mrs
Bundle, and their son, rather a spotty boy, I remember,
who used to go in to Brighton College by train every day, and
Mrs Bundle's mother, a Mrs Crump, rather deaf, but a very
good Churchwoman, and Mrs Abel—that was the name of
the dentist's wife who gave me the <i>Encyclopaedia
Britannica</i>—and old Major Ending, the people's warden.  I had
preached two sermons that day besides taking the children's
Bible-class in the afternoon, and I had rather dropped out of
the conversation.  They were all talking away quite happily
about the preparations that were being made on the pier
for the summer season, when suddenly, for no reason at all,
my <i>Doubts</i> began.'  He paused, and Paul felt constrained to
offer some expression of sympathy.
</p>

<p>
'What a terrible thing!' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I've not known an hour's real happiness since.  You
see, it wasn't the ordinary sort of Doubt about Cain's wife or
the Old Testament miracles or the consecration of Archbishop
Parker.  I'd been taught how to explain all those while
I was at college.  No, it was something deeper than all that.
<i>I couldn't understand why God had made the world at all</i>.
There was my mother and the Bundles and Mrs Crump
talking away quite unconcernedly while I sat there wrestling
with this sudden assault of doubt.  You see how fundamental
that is.  Once granted the first step, I can see that
everything else follows—Tower of Babel, Babylonian
captivity, Incarnation, Church, bishops, incense, everything—but
what I couldn't see, and what I can't see now, is, <i>why</i>
did it all begin?
</p>

<p>
'I asked my bishop; he didn't know.  He said that he didn't
think the point really arose as far as my practical duties as
a parish priest were concerned.  I discussed it with my
mother.  At first she was inclined to regard it as a passing
phase.  But it didn't pass, so finally she agreed with me that
the only honourable thing to do was to resign my living;
she never really recovered from the shock, poor old lady!
It was a great blow after she had bought the chintz and got
so friendly with the Bundles.'
</p>

<p>
A bell began ringing down a distant passage.
</p>

<p>
'Well, well, we must go to prayers, and I haven't finished
my pipes.'  He took his gown from the peg behind the door
and slipped it over his shoulders.
</p>

<p>
'Perhaps one day I shall see Light,' he said, 'and then I
shall go back to the ministry.  Meanwhile—'
</p>

<p>
Clutterbuck ran past the door, whistling hideously.
</p>

<p>
'That's a nasty little boy,' said Mr Prendergast, 'if ever
there was one.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER V
<br/>
<i>Discipline</i>
</h3>

<p>
Prayers were held downstairs in the main hall of the
Castle.  The boys stood ranged along the panelled walls, each
holding in his hands a little pile of books.  Grimes sat on one
of the chairs beside the baronial chimney-piece.
</p>

<p>
''Morning,' he said to Paul, 'only just down, I'm afraid.
Do I smell of drink?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Comes of missing breakfast.  Prendy been telling you
about his Doubts?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Funny thing,' said Grimes, 'but I've never been worried
in that way.  I don't pretend to be a particularly pious sort of
chap, but I've never had any Doubts.  When you've been in
the soup as often as I have, it gives you a sort of feeling that
everything's for the best, really.  You know, God's in His
heaven, all's right with the world.  I can't quite explain it,
but I don't believe one can ever be unhappy for long
provided one does just exactly what one wants to and when one
wants to.  The last chap who put me on my feet said I was
"singularly in harmony with the primitive promptings of
humanity".  I've remembered that phrase because somehow
it seemed to fit me.  Here comes the old man.  This is where
we stand up.'
</p>

<p>
As the bell stopped ringing Dr Fagan swept into the hall,
the robes of a Doctor of Philosophy swelling and billowing
about him.  He wore an orchid in his button-hole.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, gentlemen,' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, sir,' chorused the boys.
</p>

<p>
The Doctor advanced to the table at the end of the room,
picked up a Bible, and opening it at random, read a chapter
of blood-curdling military history without any evident
relish.  From that he plunged into the Lord's prayer, which
the boys took up in a quiet chatter.  Mr Prendergast's voice
led them in tones that testified to his ecclesiastical past.
</p>

<p>
Then the Doctor glanced at a sheet of notes he held in
his hand.  'Boys,' he said, 'I have some announcements to
make.  The Fagan cross-country running challenge cup will
not be competed for this year on account of the floods.'
</p>

<p>
'I expect the old boy has popped it,' said Grimes in Paul's
ear.
</p>

<p>
'Nor will the Llanabba Essay Prize.'
</p>

<p>
'On account of the floods,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'I have received my account for the telephone,' proceeded
Dr Fagan, 'and I find that during the past quarter there
have been no less than twenty-three trunk calls to London,
none of which was sent by me or by members of my family.
I look to the prefects to stop this, unless of course they are
themselves responsible, in which case I must urge them in
my own interests to make use of the village post-office, to
which they have access.
</p>

<p>
'I think that is everything, isn't it, Mr Prendergast?'
</p>

<p>
'<i>Cigars</i>,' said Mr Prendergast in a stage whisper.
</p>

<p>
'Ah, yes, cigars.  Boys, I have been deeply distressed to
learn that several cigar ends have been found—where have
they been found?'
</p>

<p>
'<i>Boiler-room.</i>'
</p>

<p>
'In the boiler-room.  I regard this as reprehensible.
What boy has been smoking cigars in the boiler-room?'
</p>

<p>
There was a prolonged silence, during which the Doctor's
eye travelled down the line of boys.
</p>

<p>
'I will give the culprit until luncheon to give himself up.
If I do not hear from him by then the whole school will be
heavily punished.'
</p>

<p>
'Damn!' said Grimes.  'I gave those cigars to Clutterbuck.
I hope the little beast has the sense to keep quiet.'
</p>

<p>
'Go to your classes,' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
The boys filed out.
</p>

<p>
'I should think, by the look of them, they were exceedingly
cheap cigars,' added Mr Prendergast sadly.  'They were
a pale yellow colour.'
</p>

<p>
'That makes it worse,' said the Doctor.  'To think of any
boy under my charge smoking pale yellow cigars in a
boiler-room!  It is <i>not</i> a gentlemanly fault.'
</p>

<p>
The masters went upstairs.
</p>

<p>
'That's your little mob in there,' said Grimes, 'you let
them out at eleven.'
</p>

<p>
'But what am I to teach them?' said Paul in sudden panic.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I shouldn't try to <i>teach</i> them anything, not just yet,
anyway.  Just keep them quiet.'
</p>

<p>
'Now that's a thing I've never learned to do,' sighed Mr
Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
Paul watched him amble into his class-room at the end
of the passage, where a burst of applause greeted his arrival.
Dumb with terror, he went into his own class-room.
</p>

<p>
Ten boys sat before him, their hands folded, their eyes
bright with expectation.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, sir,' said the one nearest him.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, sir,' said the next.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Good morning, sir,' said the next.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, shut up,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
At this the boy took out a handkerchief and began to cry
quietly.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, sir,' came a chorus of reproach, 'you've hurt his
feelings.  He's very sensitive, it's his Welsh blood, you know,
it makes people very emotional.  Say "Good morning" to
him, sir, or he won't be happy all day.  After all, it is a good
morning, isn't it, sir?'
</p>

<p>
'Silence!' shouted Paul above the uproar, and for a few
moments things were quieter.
</p>

<p>
'Please, sir,' said a small voice—Paul turned and saw a
grave-looking youth holding up his hand—'please, sir,
perhaps he's been smoking cigars and doesn't feel well.'
</p>

<p>
'Silence!' said Paul again.
</p>

<p>
The ten boys stopped talking and sat perfectly still, staring
at him.  He felt himself getting hot and red under their
scrutiny.
</p>

<p>
'I suppose the first thing I ought to do is to get your names
clear.  What is your name?' he asked, turning to the first
boy.
</p>

<p>
'Tangent, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'And yours?'
</p>

<p>
'Tangent, sir,' said the next boy.  Paul's heart sank.
</p>

<p>
'But you can't both be called Tangent.'
</p>

<p>
'No, sir, <i>I'm</i> Tangent.  He's just trying to be funny.'
</p>

<p>
'I like that.  <i>Me</i> trying to be funny!  Please, sir, I'm
Tangent, sir, really I am.'
</p>

<p>
'If it comes to that,' said Clutterbuck from the back of the
room 'there is only one Tangent here, and that is me.
Anyone else can jolly well go to blazes.'
</p>

<p>
Paul felt desperate.
</p>

<p>
'Well, is there anyone who isn't Tangent?'
</p>

<p>
Four or five voices instantly arose.
</p>

<p>
'I'm not, sir, I'm not Tangent.  I wouldn't be called
Tangent, not on the end of a barge pole.'
</p>

<p>
In a few seconds the room had become divided into two
parties: those who were Tangent and those who were not.
Blows were already being exchanged, when the door opened
and Grimes came in.  There was a slight hush.
</p>

<p>
'I thought you might want this,' he said, handing Paul a
walking stick.  'And if you take my advice, you'll set them
something to do.'
</p>

<p>
He went out; and Paul, firmly grasping the walking stick,
faced his form.
</p>

<p>
'Listen,' he said.  'I don't care a damn what any of you
are called, but if there's another word from anyone I shall
keep you all in this afternoon.'
</p>

<p>
'You can't keep me in,' said Clutterbuck; 'I'm going for
a walk with Captain Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'Then I shall very nearly kill you with this stick.
Meanwhile you will all write an essay on "Self-indulgence".
There will be a prize of half a crown for the longest essay,
irrespective of any possible merit.'
</p>

<p>
From then onwards all was silence until break.  Paul, still
holding the stick, gazed despondently out of the window.
Now and then there rose from below the shrill voices of the
servants scolding each other in Welsh.  By the time the bell
rang Clutterbuck had covered sixteen pages, and was
awarded the half-crown.
</p>

<p>
'Did you find those boys difficult to manage?' asked Mr
Prendergast, filling his pipe.
</p>

<p>
'Not at all,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Ah, you're lucky.  I find all boys utterly intractable.  I
don't know why it is.  Of course my wig has a lot to do with
it.  Have you noticed that I wear a wig?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, of course not.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, the boys did as soon as they saw it.  It was a great
mistake my ever getting one.  I thought when I left Worthing
that I looked too old to get a job easily.  I was only forty-one.
It was very expensive, even though I chose the cheapest
quality.  Perhaps that's why it looks so like a wig.  I don't
know.  I knew from the first that it was a mistake, but once
they had seen it, it was too late to go back.  They make all
sorts of jokes about it.'
</p>

<p>
'I expect they'd laugh at something else if it wasn't that.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, no doubt they would.  I daresay it's a good thing to
localize their ridicule as far as possible.  Oh dear! oh dear!
If it wasn't for my pipes, I don't know how I should manage
to keep on.  What made you come here?'
</p>

<p>
'I was sent down from Scone for indecent behaviour.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, yes, like Grimes?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul firmly, 'not like Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, well, it's all much the same really.  And there's the
bell.  Oh dear! oh dear!  I believe that loathsome little man's
taken my gown.'
</p>

<p>
Two days later Beste-Chetwynde pulled out the <i>vox humana</i>
and played <i>Pop goes the Weasel</i>.
</p>

<p>
'D'you know, sir, you've made rather a hit with the fifth
form?'
</p>

<p>
He and Paul were seated in the organ-loft of the village
church.  It was their second music lesson.
</p>

<p>
'For goodness' sake, leave the organ alone.  How d'you
mean "hit"?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, Clutterbuck was in the matron's room this morning.
He'd just got a tin of pine-apple chunks.  Tangent said,
"Are you going to take that into Hall?" and he said, "No,
I'm going to eat them in Mr Pennyfeather's hour."  "Oh,
no, you're not," said Tangent. "Sweets and biscuits are
one thing, but pine-apple chunks are going too far.  It's
little stinkers like you," he said, "who turn decent
masters savage."'
</p>

<p>
'Do you think that's so very complimentary?'
</p>

<p>
'I think it's one of the most complimentary things I ever
heard said about a master,' said Beste-Chetwynde; 'would
you like me to try that hymn again?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul decisively.
</p>

<p>
'Well, then, I'll tell you another thing,' said
Beste-Chetwynde.  'You know that man Philbrick.
Well, I think there's something odd about him.'
</p>

<p>
'I've no doubt of it.'
</p>

<p>
'It's not just that he's such a bad butler. The servants
are always ghastly here. But I don't believe he's a butler
at all.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't quite see what else he <i>can</i> be.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, have you ever known a butler with a diamond tie-pin?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I don't think I have.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, Philbrick's got one, and a diamond ring too. He showed
them to Brolly. Colossal great diamonds, Brolly says. Philbrick
said he used to have bushels of diamonds and emeralds before
the war, and that he used to eat off gold plate. We believe
that he's a Russian prince in exile.'
</p>

<p>
'Generally speaking, Russians are not shy about using their
titles, are they? Besides, he looks very English.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, we thought of that, but Brolly said lots of Russians came
to school in England before the war. And now I <i>am</i> going
to play the organ,' said Beste-Chetwynde. 'After all, my mother
does pay five guineas a term extra for me to learn.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VI
<br/>
<i>Conduct</i>
</h3>

<p>
Sitting over the Common Room fire that afternoon waiting
for the bell for tea, Paul found himself reflecting that on
the whole the last week had not been quite as awful as he
had expected.  As Beste-Chetwynde had told him, he was a
distinct success with his form; after the first day an
understanding had been established between them.  It was tacitly
agreed that when Paul wished to read or to write letters he
was allowed to do so undisturbed while he left them to
employ the time as they thought best; when Paul took it
upon him to talk to them about their lessons they remained
silent, and when he set them work to do some of it was
done.  It had rained steadily, so that there had been no
games.  No punishments, no reprisals, no exertion, and in the
evenings the confessions of Grimes, any one of which would
have glowed with outstanding shamelessness from the
appendix to a treatise in psychoanalysis.
</p>

<p>
Mr Prendergast came in with the post.
</p>

<p>
'A letter for you, two for Grimes, nothing for me,' he
said.  'No one ever writes to me.  There was a time when I
used to get five or six letters a day, not counting circulars.
My mother used to file them for me to answer—one heap
of charity appeals, another for personal letters, another for
marriages and funerals, another for baptisms and churchings
and another for anonymous abuse.  I wonder why it is
the clergy always get so many letters of that sort, sometimes
from quite educated people.  I remember my father had
great trouble in that way once, and he was forced to call in
the police because they became so threatening.  And, do you
know, it was the curate's wife who had sent them—such a
quiet little woman.  There's your letter.  Grimes' look like
bills.  I can't think why shops give that man credit at all.
I always pay cash, or at least I should if I ever bought
anything. But d'you know that, except for my tobacco and the
<i>Daily News</i> and occasionally a little port when it's very
cold, I don't think I've bought anything for two years.  The last
thing I bought was that walking stick.  I got it at Shanklin,
and Grimes uses it for beating the boys with.  I hadn't
really meant to buy one, but I was there for the day—two
years this August—and I went into the tobacconist's to
buy some tobacco.  He hadn't the sort I wanted, and I felt
I couldn't go without getting something, so I bought
that.  It cost one and six,' he added wistfully, 'so I had no
tea.'
</p>

<p>
Paul took his letter.  It had been forwarded from Onslow
Square.  On the flap were embossed the arms of Scone
College.  It was from one of his four friends.
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Scone College, F.C.R.<br/>
  Oxford</i><br/>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>My Dear Pennyfeather</i> (it ran),
</p>

<p>
<i>I need hardly tell you how distressed I was when I heard
of your disastrous misfortune.  It seems to me that a real
injustice has been done to you.  I have not heard the full facts
of the case, but I was confirmed in my opinion by a very
curious incident last evening.  I was just going to bed when
Digby-Vaine-Trumpington came into my rooms without
knocking.  He was smoking a cigar.  I had never spoken to him
before, as you know, and was very much surprised at his visit.
He said: 'I'm told you are a friend of Pennyfeather's.'  I said
I was, and he said: 'Well, I gather I've rather got him into a
mess.'  I said: 'Yes,' and he said: 'Well, will you apologize to
him for me when you write?'  I said I would.  Then he said:
'Look here, I'm told he's rather poor.  I thought of sending
him some money—£20 for sort of damages you know.  It's
all I can spare at the moment.  Wouldn't it be a useful thing
to do?'  I fairly let him have it, I can tell you, and told him
just what I thought of him for making such an insulting
suggestion.  I asked him how he dared treat a gentleman like
that just because he wasn't in his awful set.  He seemed rather
taken aback and said: 'Well, all <i>my</i> friends spend all their
time trying to get money out of me,' and went off.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>I bicycled over to St Magnus's at Little Bechley and took
some rubbings of the brasses there.  I wished you had been with
me.</i>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Yours,<br/>
  Arthur Potts.</i><br/>
</p>

<p>
<i>P.S.—I understand you are thinking of taking up educational
work.  It seems to me that the great problem of education
is to train the moral perceptions, not merely to discipline
the appetites.  I cannot help thinking that it is in greater
fastidiousness rather than in greater self-control that the
future progress of the race lies.  I shall be interested to hear
what your experience has been over the matter.  The chaplain
does not agree with me in this.  He says great sensibility
usually leads to enervation of will.  Let me know what you
think.</i>
</p>

<p>
'What do you think about that?' asked Paul, handing Mr
Prendergast the letter.
</p>

<p>
'Well,' he said after studying it carefully, 'I think your
friend is wrong about sensibility.  It doesn't do to rely on
one's own feelings, does it, not in anything?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I mean about the money.'
</p>

<p>
'Good gracious, Pennyfeather!  I hope you are in no doubt
about that.  Accept it at once, of course.'
</p>

<p>
'It's a temptation.'
</p>

<p>
'My dear boy, it would be a sin to refuse.  Twenty pounds!
Why, it takes me half a term to earn that.'
</p>

<p>
The bell rang for tea.  In the dining-hall Paul gave the
letter to Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'Shall I take that twenty pounds?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
'Take it?  My God!  I should think you would.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I'm not sure,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
He thought about it all through afternoon school, all the
time he was dressing for dinner, and all through dinner.
It was a severe struggle, but his early training was victorious.
</p>

<p>
'If I take that money,' he said to himself, 'I shall never
know whether I have acted rightly or not.  It would always
be on my mind.  If I refuse, I shall be sure of having done
right.  I shall look back upon my self-denial with exquisite
self-approval.  By refusing I can convince myself that, in
spite of the unbelievable things that have been happening
to me during the last ten days, I am still the same Paul
Pennyfeather I have respected so long.  It is a test-case of
the durability of my ideals.'
</p>

<p>
He tried to explain something of what he felt to Grimes
as they sat in Mrs Roberts' bar parlour that evening.
</p>

<p>
'I'm afraid you'll find my attitude rather difficult to
understand,' he said.  'I suppose it's largely a matter of
upbringing.  There is every reason why I should take this
money.  Digby-Vaine-Trumpington is exceedingly rich, and
if he keeps it, it will undoubtedly be spent on betting or on
some deplorable debauch.  Owing to his party I have suffered
irreparable harm.  My whole future is shattered, and I have
directly lost one hundred and twenty pounds a year in
scholarships and two hundred and fifty pounds a year
allowance from my guardian.  By any ordinary process of thought,
the money is justly mine.  But,' said Paul Pennyfeather,
'there is my honour.  For generations the British bourgeoisie
have spoken of themselves as gentlemen, and by that they
have meant, among other things, a self-respecting scorn of
irregular perquisites.  It is the quality that distinguishes the
gentleman from both the artist and the aristocrat.  Now I
am a gentleman.  I can't help it: it's born in me.  I just can't
take that money.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I'm a gentleman too, old boy,' said Grimes, 'and
I was afraid you might feel like that, so I did my best for
you and saved you from yourself.'
</p>

<p>
'What d'you mean by that?'
</p>

<p>
'Dear old boy, don't be angry, but immediately after tea
I sent off a wire to your friend Potts: <i>Tell Trumpington send
money quick</i>, and signed it "<i>Pennyfeather</i>".  I don't mind
lending you the bob till it comes, either.'
</p>

<p>
'Grimes, you wretch!' said Paul, but, in spite of himself,
he felt a great wave of satisfaction surge up within him.
'We must have another drink on that.'
</p>

<p>
'Good for you,' said Grimes, 'and it's on me this round.'
</p>

<p>
'To the durability of ideals!' said Paul as he got his pint.
</p>

<p>
'My word, what a mouthful!' said Grimes; 'I can't say
that.  Cheerioh!'
</p>

<p>
Two days later came another letter from Arthur Potts:
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Dear Pennyfeather,</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>I enclose Trumpington's cheque for £20.  I am glad that
my dealings with him are at an end.  I cannot pretend to
understand your attitude in this matter, but no doubt you are
the best judge.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Stiggins is reading a paper to the O.S.C.U. on 'Sex
Repression and Religious Experience'.  Everyone expects
rather a row, because you know how keen Walton is on the
mystical element, which I think Stiggins is inclined to discount.</i>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Yours,<br/>
  Arthur Potts.</i><br/>
</p>

<p>
<i>There is a most interesting article in the <i>Educational
Review</i> on the new methods that are being tried at the
Innesborough High School to induce co-ordination of the senses.
They put small objects into the children's mouths and make
them draw the shapes in red chalk.  Have you tried this with
your boys?  I must say I envy you your opportunities.  Are
your colleagues enlightened?</i>
</p>

<p>
'This same Potts,' said Grimes as he read the letter,
'would appear to be something of a stinker.  Still, we've got
the doings.  How about a binge?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul, 'I think we ought to do something about
one.  I should like to ask Prendy too.'
</p>

<p>
'Why, of course.  It's just what Prendy needs.  He's been
looking awfully down in the mouth lately.  Why shouldn't
we all go over to the Metropole at Cwmpryddyg for dinner
one night?  We shall have to wait until the old boy goes
away, otherwise he'll notice that there's no one on duty.'
</p>

<p>
Later in the day Paul suggested the plan to Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'Really, Pennyfeather,' he said, 'I think that's uncommonly
kind of you.  I hardly know what to say.  Of course, I
should love it.  I can't remember when I dined at an hotel
last.  Certainly not since the war.  It <i>will</i> be a treat.  My dear
boy, I'm quite overcome.'
</p>

<p>
And, much to Paul's embarrassment, a tear welled up in
each of Mr Prendergast's eyes, and coursed down his cheeks.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VII
<br/>
<i>Philbrick</i>
</h3>

<p>
That morning just before luncheon the weather began to
show signs of clearing, and by half-past one the sun was
shining.  The Doctor made one of his rare visits to the school
dining-hall.  At his entry everybody stopped eating and laid
down his knife and fork.
</p>

<p>
'Boys,' said the Doctor, regarding them benignly, 'I have
an announcement to make.  Clutterbuck, will you kindly
stop eating while I am addressing the school.  The boys'
manners need correcting, Mr Prendergast.  I look to the
prefects to see to this.  Boys, the chief sporting event of the
year will take place in the playing-fields tomorrow.  I refer
to the Annual School Sports, unfortunately postponed last
year owing to the General Strike.  Mr Pennyfeather, who,
as you know, is himself a distinguished athlete, will be in
charge of all arrangements.  The preliminary heats will be
run off today.  All boys must compete in all events.
The Countess of Circumference has kindly consented to
present the prizes.  Mr Prendergast will act as referee, and
Captain Grimes as time-keeper.  I shall myself be present
tomorrow to watch the final competitions.  That is all,
thank you.  Mr Pennyfeather, perhaps you will favour
me with an interview when you have finished your
luncheon?'
</p>

<p>
'Good God!' murmured Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I won the long jump at the last sports,' said Briggs, 'but
everyone said that it was because I had spiked shoes.  Do you
wear spiked shoes, sir?'
</p>

<p>
'Invariably,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Everyone said it was taking an unfair advantage.  You
see, we never know beforehand when there's going to be
sports, so we don't have time to get ready.'
</p>

<p>
'My mamma's coming down to see me tomorrow,' said
Beste-Chetwynde; 'just my luck!  Now I shall have to stay
here all the afternoon.'
</p>

<p>
After luncheon Paul went to the morning-room, where
he found the Doctor pacing up and down in evident high
excitement.
</p>

<p>
'Ah, come in, Pennyfeather!  I am just making the
arrangements for tomorrow's fête.  Florence, will you get
on to the Clutterbucks on the telephone and ask them to
come over, and the Hope-Brownes.  I think the Warringtons
are too far away, but you might ask them, and of course
the Vicar and old Major Sidebotham.  The more guests the
better, Florence!
</p>

<p>
'And, Diana, you must arrange the tea.  Sandwiches, <i>foie
gras</i> sandwiches—last time, you remember, the liver
sausage you bought made Lady Bunyan ill—and cakes, plenty
of cakes, with coloured sugar!  You had better take the car
into Llandudno and get them there.
</p>

<p>
'Philbrick, there must be champagne-cup, and will you
help the men putting up the marquee?  And flags, Diana!
There should be flags left over from last time.'
</p>

<p>
'I made them into dusters,' said Dingy.
</p>

<p>
'Well, we must buy more.  No expense must be spared.
Pennyfeather, I want you to get the results of the first heats
out by four o'clock.  Then you can telephone them to the
printers, and we shall have the programmes by tomorrow.
Tell them that fifty will be enough, they must be decorated
with the school colours and crest in gold.  And there must
be flowers, Diana, banks of flowers,' said the Doctor, with
an expansive gesture.  'The prizes shall stand among banks
of flowers.  Do you think there ought to be a bouquet for
Lady Circumference?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Dingy.
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!' said the Doctor.  'Of course there must be a
bouquet.  It is rarely that the scholarly calm of Llanabba
gives place to festival, but when it does taste and dignity
shall go unhampered.  It shall be an enormous bouquet,
redolent of hospitality.  You are to procure the most
expensive bouquet that Wales can offer, do you understand?
Flowers, youth, wisdom, the glitter of jewels, music,' said
the Doctor, his imagination soaring to dizzy heights under
the stimulus of the words, 'music!  There must be a
band.'
</p>

<p>
'I never heard of such a thing,' said Dingy.  'A band,
indeed!  You'll be having fireworks next.'
</p>

<p>
'<i>And fireworks</i>,' said the Doctor, 'and do you think it
would be a good thing to buy Mr Prendergast a new tie?
I noticed how shabby he looked this morning.'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Dingy with finality, 'that is going too far.
Flowers and fireworks are one thing, but I insist on drawing
a line somewhere.  It would be sinful to buy Mr Prendergast
a tie.'
</p>

<p>
'Perhaps you are right,' said the Doctor.  'But there shall
be music.  I understand that the Llanabba Silver Band was
third at the North Wales Eisteddfod last month.  Will you
get on to them, Florence?  I think Mr Davies at the station
is the bandmaster.  Can the Clutterbucks come?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Flossie, 'six of them.'
</p>

<p>
'Admirable!  And then there is the Press.  We must ring
up the <i>Flint and Denbigh Herald</i> and get them to send a
photographer.  That means whisky.  Will you see to that,
Philbrick?  I remember at one of our sports I omitted to
offer whisky to the Press, and the result was a most
unfortunate photograph.  Boys do get into such indelicate
positions during the obstacle race, don't they?
</p>

<p>
'Then there are the prizes.  I think you had better take
Grimes into Llandudno with you to help with the prizes.
I don't think there is any need for undue extravagance with
the prizes.  It gives boys a wrong idea of sport.  I wonder
whether Lady Circumference would think it odd if we
asked her to present parsley crowns.  Perhaps she would.
Utility, economy and apparent durability are the qualities
to be sought for, I think.
</p>

<p>
'And, Pennyfeather, I hope you will see that they are
distributed fairly evenly about the school.  It doesn't do to
let any boy win more than two events, I leave you to
arrange that.  I think it would be only right if little Lord
Tangent won something, and Beste-Chetwynde—yes, his
mother is coming down, too.
</p>

<p>
'I am afraid all this has been thrown upon your shoulders
rather suddenly.  I only learned this morning that Lady
Circumference proposed to visit us, and as Mrs Beste-Chetwynde
was coming too, it seemed too good an opportunity
to be missed.  It is not often that the visits of two such
important parents coincide.  She is the Honourable Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde, you know—sister-in-law of Lord
Pastmaster—a very wealthy woman, South American.  They
always say that she poisoned her husband, but of course little
Beste-Chetwynde doesn't know that.  It never came into
court, but there was a great deal of talk about it at the time.
Perhaps you remember the case?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Powdered glass,' said Flossie shrilly, 'in his coffee.'
</p>

<p>
'Turkish coffee,' said Dingy.
</p>

<p>
'To work!' said the Doctor; 'we have a lot to see to.'
</p>

<p>
It was raining again by the time that Paul and Mr Prendergast
reached the playing-fields.  The boys were waiting for
them in bleak little groups, shivering at the unaccustomed
austerity of bare knees and open necks.  Clutterbuck had
fallen down in the mud and was crying quietly behind a
tree.
</p>

<p>
'How shall we divide them?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I don't know,' said Mr Prendergast.  'Frankly, I deplore
the whole business.'
</p>

<p>
Philbrick appeared in an overcoat and a bowler hat.
</p>

<p>
'Miss Fagan says she's very sorry, but she's burnt the
hurdles and the jumping posts for firewood.  She thinks she
can hire some in Llandudno for tomorrow.  The Doctor says
you must do the best you can till then.  I've got to help the
gardeners put up the blasted tent.'
</p>

<p>
'I think that, if anything, sports are rather worse than
concerts,' said Mr Prendergast.  'They at least happen
indoors.  Oh dear! oh dear!  How wet I am getting.  I should
have got my boots mended if I'd known this was going to
happen.'
</p>

<p>
'Please sir,' said Beste-Chetwynde, 'we're all getting
rather cold.  Can we start?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I suppose so,' said Paul.  'What do you want to do?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, we ought to divide up into heats and then run a race.'
</p>

<p>
'All right!  Get into four groups.'
</p>

<p>
This took some time.  They tried to induce Mr Prendergast
to run too.
</p>

<p>
'The first race will be a mile.  Prendy, will you look after
them?  I want to see if Philbrick and I can fix up anything
for the jumping.'
</p>

<p>
'But what am I to do?' said Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'Just make each group run to the Castle and back and take
the names of the first two in each heat.  It's quite simple.'
</p>

<p>
'I'll try,' he said sadly.
</p>

<p>
Paul and Philbrick went into the pavilion together.
</p>

<p>
'Me, a butler,' said Philbrick, 'made to put up tents like
a blinking Arab!'
</p>

<p>
'Well, it's a change,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'It's a change for me to be a butler,' said Philbrick.
'I wasn't made to be anyone's servant.'
</p>

<p>
'No, I suppose not.'
</p>

<p>
'I expect you wonder how it is that I come to be here?'
said Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul firmly, 'nothing of the kind.  I don't in the
least want to know anything about you; d'you hear?'
</p>

<p>
'I'll tell you,' said Philbrick; 'it was like this—'
</p>

<p>
'I don't want to hear your loathsome confessions; can't
you understand?'
</p>

<p>
'It isn't a loathsome confession,' said Philbrick.  'It's a
story of love.  I think it is without exception the most
beautiful story I know.
</p>

<p>
'I daresay you may have heard of Sir Solomon Philbrick?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'What, never heard of old Solly Philbrick?'
</p>

<p>
'No, why?'
</p>

<p>
'Because that's me.  And I can tell you this.  It's a pretty
well-known name across the river.  You've only to say Solly
Philbrick, of the "Lamb and Flag", anywhere south of
Waterloo Bridge to see what fame is.  Try it.'
</p>

<p>
'I will one day.'
</p>

<p>
'Mind you, when I say <i>Sir</i> Solomon Philbrick, that's only
a bit of fun, see?  That's what the boys call me.  Plain Mr
Solomon Philbrick I am, really, just like you or him,' with
a jerk of the thumb towards the playing-fields, from which
Mr Prendergast's voice could be heard crying weakly: 'Oh,
do get into line, you beastly boys,' 'but <i>Sir</i> Solomon's what
they call me.  Out of respect, see?'
</p>

<p>
'When I say, "Are you ready?  Go!" I want you to go,'
Mr Prendergast could be heard saying.  'Are you ready?  Go!
Oh, why <i>don't</i> you go?' and his voice became drowned in
shrill cries of protest.
</p>

<p>
'Mind you,' went on Philbrick, 'I haven't always been
in the position that I am now.  I was brought up rough,
damned rough.  Ever heard speak of "Chick" Philbrick?
</p>

<p>
'No, I suppose he was before your time.  Useful little
boxer, though.  Not first-class, on account of his drinking so
much <i>and</i> being short in the arm.  Still, he used to earn five
pound a night at the Lambeth Stadium.  Always popular
with the boys, he was, even when he was so full, he
couldn't hardly fight.  He was my dad, a good-hearted sort
of fellow but rough, as I was telling you, he used to knock
my poor mother about something awful.  Got jugged for it
twice, but my! he took it out of her when he got out.
There aren't many left like him nowadays, what with
education and whisky the price it is.
</p>

<p>
'"Chick" was all for getting me on in the sporting world,
and before I left school I was earning a few shillings a week
holding the sponge at the Stadium on Saturday nights.  It
was there I met Toby Cruttwell.  Perhaps you ain't never
heard of him, neither?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I am terribly afraid I haven't.  I'm not very well up
in sporting characters.'
</p>

<p>
'Sporting!  What, Toby Cruttwell a sporting character!
You make me laugh.  Toby Cruttwell,' said Philbrick with
renewed emphasis, 'what brought off the Buller diamond
robbery of 1912, and the Amalgamated Steel Trust robbery
of 1910, and the Isle of Wight burglaries in 1914!  He wasn't
no sporting character, Toby wasn't.  Sporting character!
D'you know what he done to Alf Larrigan, what tried to
put it over on one of his girls?  I'll tell you.  Toby had a
doctor in tow at the time, name of Peterfield, lives in
Harley Street, with a swell lot of patients.  Well, Toby
knew a thing about him.  He'd done in one of Toby's girls
what went to him because she was going to have a kid.
Well, Toby knew that, so he had to do what Toby told
him, see?
</p>

<p>
'Toby didn't kill Alf; that wasn't his way.  Toby never
killed no one except a lot of blinking Turks the time they
gave him the V.C.  But he got hold of him and took him to
Dr Peterfield, and—' Philbrick's voice sank to a whisper.
</p>

<p>
'Second heat, get ready.  Now, if you don't go when I say
"Go", I shall disqualify you all; d'you hear?  Are you ready?
<i>Go!</i>'
</p>

<p>
'... He hadn't no use for girls after that.  Ha, ha, ha!
Sporting character's good.  Well, me and Toby worked
together for five years.  I was with him in the Steel Trust
and the Buller diamonds, and we cleared a nice little profit.
Toby took seventy-five per cent., him being the older man,
but even with that I did pretty well.  Just before the war we
split.  He stuck to safe-cracking, and I settled down
comfortable at the "Lamb and Flag", Camberwell Green.  A
very fine house that was before the war, and it's the best
in the locality now, though I says it.  Things aren't quite so
easy as they was, but I can't complain.  I've got the Picture
House next to it, too.  Just mention my name there any day
you like to have a free seat.'
</p>

<p>
'That's very kind of you.'
</p>

<p>
'You're welcome.  Well, then, there was the war.  Toby
got the V.C. in the Dardanelles and turned respectable.  He's
in Parliament now—Major Cruttwell, M.P., Conservative
member for some potty town on the South Coast.  My old
woman ran the pub for me.  Didn't tell you I was married,
did I?  Pretty enough bit of goods when we was spliced, but
she ran to fat.  Women do in the public-house business.
After the war things were a bit slow, and then my old
woman kicked the bucket.  I didn't think I'd mind much,
her having got so fat and all, nor I didn't not at first, but
after a time, when the excitement of the funeral had died
down and things were going on just the same as usual, I
began to get restless.  You know how things get, and I took
to reading the papers.  Before that my old woman used to
read out the bits she'd like, and sometimes I'd listen and
sometimes I wouldn't, but anyhow they weren't the things
that interested me.  She never took no interest in crime, not
unless it was a murder.  But I took to reading the police
news, and I took to dropping in at the pictures whenever
they sent me a crook film.  I didn't sleep so well, neither,
and I used to lie awake thinking of old times.  Of course I
could have married again: in my position I could have
married pretty well who I liked, but it wasn't that I
wanted.
</p>

<p>
'Then one Saturday night I came into the bar.  I generally
drop in on Saturday evenings and smoke a cigar and stand a
round of drinks.  It sets the right tone.  I wear a button-hole
in the summer, too, and a diamond ring.  Well, I was in the
saloon when who did I see in the corner but Jimmy
Drage—cove I used to know when I was working with Toby
Cruttwell.  I never see a man look more discouraged.
</p>

<p>
'"Hullo, Jimmy!" I says.  "We don't see each other as
often as we used.  How are things with you?"  I says it
cordial, but careful like, because I didn't know what Jimmy
was up to.
</p>

<p>
'"Pretty bad," says Jimmy.  "Just fooled a job."
</p>

<p>
'"What sort of job?" I says.  "Nobbling," he says,
meaning kidnapping.
</p>

<p>
'"It was like this," he says.  "You know a toff called Lord
Utteridge?"
</p>

<p>
'"The bloke what had them electric burglar alarms," I
says, "Utteridge House, Belgrave Square?"
</p>

<p>
'"That's the blinking bastard.  Well, he's got a son—nasty
little kid about twelve, just going off to college for the
first time.  I'd had my eye on him," Jimmy said, "for a long
time, him being the only son and his father so rich, so
when I'd finished the last job I was on I had a go at him.
Everything went as easy as drinking," Jimmy said.  There
was a garage just round the corner behind Belgrave Square
where he used to go every morning to watch them messing
about with the cars.  Crazy about cars the kid was.  Jimmy
comes in one day with his motor bike and side-car and asks
for some petrol.  He comes up and looks at it in the way he
had.
</p>

<p>
'"That bike's no good," he says.  "No good?" says Jimmy.
"I wouldn't sell it not for a hundred quid, I wouldn't.  This
bike," he says, "won the Grand Prix at Boulogne."  "Nonsense!"
the kid says, "it wouldn't do thirty, not downhill."  "Well,
just you see," Jimmy says.  "Come for a run?  I bet
you I'll do eighty on the road."  In he got, and away they
went till they got to a place Jimmy knew.  Then Jimmy shuts
him up safe and writes to the father.  The kid was happy as
blazes taking down the engine of Jimmy's bike.  It's never
been the same since, Jimmy told me, but then it wasn't
much to talk of before.  Everything had gone through
splendid till Jimmy got his answer from Lord Utteridge.
Would you believe it, that unnatural father wouldn't stump
up, him that owns ships and coal-mines enough to buy the
blinking Bank of England.  Said he was much obliged to
Jimmy for the trouble he had taken, that the dearest wish
of his life had been gratified and the one barrier to his
complete happiness removed, but that, as the matter had
been taken up without his instructions, he did not feel
called upon to make any payment in respect of it, and
remained his sincerely, Utteridge.
</p>

<p>
'That was a nasty one for Jimmy.  He wrote once or twice
after that, but got no answer, so by the time the kid had
spread bits of the bike all over the room Jimmy let him go.
</p>

<p>
'"Did you try pulling out 'is teeth and sending them to
his pa?" I asks.
</p>

<p>
'"No," says Jimmy.  "I didn't do that."
</p>

<p>
'"Did you make the kid write pathetic, asking to be
let out?"
</p>

<p>
'"No," says, Jimmy, "I didn't do that."
</p>

<p>
'"Did you cut off one of his fingers and put it in the
letter-box?"
</p>

<p>
'"No," he says.
</p>

<p>
'"Well, man alive," I says, "you don't deserve to succeed,
you just don't know your job."
</p>

<p>
'"Oh, cut that out," he says, "it's easy to talk.  You've
been out of the business ten years.  You don't know what
things are like nowadays."
</p>

<p>
'Well, that rather set me thinking.  As I say, I'd been
getting restless doing nothing but just pottering round the
pub all day.  "Look here," I says, "I bet you I can bring off
a job like that any day with any kid you like to mention."
"Done!" says Jimmy.  So he opens a newspaper.  "The first
toff we find what's got a' only son," he says.  "Right!" says I.
Well, about the first thing we found was a picture of Lady
Circumference with her only son, Lord Tangent, at Warwick
Races.  "There's your man," says Jimmy.  And that's
what brought me here.'
</p>

<p>
'But, good gracious,' said Paul, 'why have you told me
this monstrous story?  I shall certainly inform the police.  I
never heard of such a thing.'
</p>

<p>
'That's all right,' said Philbrick.  'The job's off.  Jimmy's
won his bet.  All this was before I met Dina, see?'
</p>

<p>
'Dina?'
</p>

<p>
'Miss Diana.  Dina I calls her, after a song I heard.  The
moment I saw that girl I knew the game was up.  My heart
just stood still.  There's a song about that, too.  That girl,'
said Philbrick, 'could bring a man up from the depths of
hell itself.'
</p>

<p>
'You feel as strongly as that about her?'
</p>

<p>
'I'd go through fire and water for that girl.  She's not
happy here.  I don't think her dad treats her proper.
Sometimes,' said Philbrick, 'I think she's only marrying me to
get away from here.'
</p>

<p>
'Good heavens!  Are you going to get married?'
</p>

<p>
'We fixed it up last Thursday.  We've been going together
for some time.  It's bad for a girl being shut away like that,
never seeing a man.  She was in a state she'd have gone with
anybody until I come along, just housekeeping day in, day
out.  The only pleasure she ever got was cutting down the
bills and dismissing the servants.  Most of them leave before
their month is up, anyway, they're that hungry.  She's got
a head on her shoulders, she has.  Real business woman, just
what I need at the "Lamb".
</p>

<p>
'Then she heard me on the 'phone one day giving
instructions to our manager at the Picture Theatre.  That
made her think a bit.  A prince in disguise, as you might
say.  It was she who actually suggested our getting married.
I shouldn't have had the face to, not while I was butler.
What I'd meant to do was to hire a car one day and come
down with my diamond ring and button-hole and pop the
question.  But there wasn't any need for that.  Love's a
wonderful thing.'
</p>

<p>
Philbrick stopped speaking and was evidently deeply
moved by his recital.  The door of the pavilion opened, and
Mr Prendergast came in.
</p>

<p>
'Well,' asked Paul, 'how are the sports going?'
</p>

<p>
'Not very well,' said Mr Prendergast; 'in fact, they've
gone.'
</p>

<p>
'All over?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.  You see, none of the boys came back from the first
race.  They just disappeared behind the trees at the top of
the drive.  I expect they've gone to change.  I don't blame
them, I'm sure.  It's terribly cold.  Still, it was discouraging
launching heat after heat and none coming back.  Like
sending troops into battle, you know.'
</p>

<p>
'The best thing for us to do is to go back and change too.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I suppose so.  Oh, what a day!'
</p>

<p>
Grimes was in the Common Room.
</p>

<p>
'Just back from the gay metropolis of Llandudno,' he
said.  'Shopping with Dingy is not a seemly occupation for
a public-school man.  How did the heats go?'
</p>

<p>
'There weren't any,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Quite right,' said Grimes; 'you leave this to me.  I've
been in the trade some time.  These things are best done
over the fire.  We can make out the results in peace.  We'd
better hurry.  The old boy wants them sent to be printed
this evening.'
</p>

<p>
And taking a sheet of paper and a small stub of pencil,
Grimes made out the programme.
</p>

<p>
'How about that?' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Clutterbuck seems to have done pretty well,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, he's a splendid little athlete,' said Grimes.  'Now
just you telephone that through to the printers, and they'll
get it done tonight.  I wonder if we ought to have a hurdle
race?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VIII
<br/>
<i>The Sports</i>
</h3>

<p>
Happily enough, it did not rain next day, and after
morning school everybody dressed up to the nines.  Dr
Fagan appeared in a pale grey morning coat and sponge-bag
trousers, looking more than ever <i>jeune premier</i>; there
was a spring in his step and a pronounced sprightliness of
bearing that Paul had not observed before.  Flossie wore a
violet frock of knitted wool made for her during the
preceding autumn by her sister.  It was the colour of indelible
ink on blotting paper, and was ornamented at the waist
with flowers of emerald green and pink.  Her hat, also
home-made, was the outcome of many winter evenings of
ungrudged labour.  All the trimmings of all her previous hats
had gone to its adornment.  Dingy wore a little steel brooch
made in the shape of a bull-dog.  Grimes wore a stiff evening
collar of celluloid.
</p>

<p>
'Had to do something to celebrate the occasion,' he said,
'so I put on a "choker".  Phew, though, it's tight.  Have you
seen my fiancée's latest creation?  Ascot ain't in it.  Let's get
down to Mrs Roberts for a quick one before the happy
throng rolls up.'
</p>

<p>
'I wish I could, but I've got to go round the ground with
the Doctor.'
</p>

<p>
'Righto, old boy!  See you later.  Here comes Prendy in
his coat of many colours.'
</p>

<p>
Mr Prendergast wore a blazer of faded stripes, which
smelt strongly of camphor.
</p>

<p>
'I think Dr Fagan encourages a certain amount of display
on these occasions,' he said.  'I used to keep wicket for my
college, you know, but I was too short-sighted to be much
good.  Still, I am entitled to the blazer,' he said with a note
of defiance in his voice, 'and it is more appropriate to a
sporting occasion than a stiff collar.'
</p>

<p>
'Good old Prendy!' said Grimes.  'Nothing like a change
of clothes to bring out latent pep.  I felt like that my first
week in khaki.  Well, so long.  Me for Mrs Roberts.  Why
don't you come too, Prendy?'
</p>

<p>
'D'you know,' said Mr Prendergast, 'I think I will.'
</p>

<p>
Paul watched them disappear down the drive in amazement.
Then he went off to find the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'Frankly,' said the Doctor, 'I am at a loss to understand
my own emotions.  I can think of no entertainment that
fills me with greater detestation than a display of
competitive athletics, none—except possibly folk dancing.  If
there are two women in the world whose company I
abominate—and there are very many more than two—they
are Mrs Beste-Chetwynde and Lady Circumference.  I have,
moreover, had an extremely difficult encounter with my
butler, who—will you believe it?—waited at luncheon in a
mustard-coloured suit of plus-fours and a diamond tie-pin,
and when I reprimanded him, attempted to tell me some
ridiculous story about his being the proprietor of a circus or
swimming-bath or some such concern.  And yet,' said the
Doctor, 'I am filled with a wholly delightful exhilaration.
I can't understand it.  It is not as though this was the first
occasion of the kind.  During the fourteen years that I have
been at Llanabba there have been six sports days and two
concerts, all of them, in one way or another, utterly
disastrous.  Once Lady Bunyan was taken ill, another time it
was the matter of the press photographers and the obstacle
race, another time some quite unimportant parents brought
a dog with them which bit two of the boys very severely
and one of the masters, who swore terribly in front of
everyone.  I could hardly blame him, but of course he had to go.
Then there was the concert when the boys refused to sing
"God save the King" because of the pudding they had had
for luncheon.  One way and another, I have been consistently
unfortunate in my efforts at festivity.  And yet I
look forward to each new fiasco with the utmost relish.
Perhaps, Pennyfeather, you will bring luck to Llanabba,
in fact, I feel confident you have already done so.  Look at
the sun!'
</p>

<p>
Picking their way carefully among the dry patches in the
water-logged drive, they reached the playing-fields.  Here
the haphazard organization of the last twenty-four hours
seemed to have been fairly successful.  A large marquee was
already in position, and Philbrick—still in plus-fours—and
three gardeners were at work putting up a smaller tent.
</p>

<p>
'That's for the Llanabba Silver Band,' said the Doctor.
'Philbrick, I required you to take off those loathsome
garments.'
</p>

<p>
'They were new when I bought them,' said Philbrick,
'and they cost eight pounds fifteen.  Anyhow, I can't do two
things at once, can I?  If I go back to change, who's going to
manage all this, I'd like to know?'
</p>

<p>
'All right!  Finish what you are doing first.  Let us just
review the arrangements.  The marquee is for the visitors'
tea.  That is Diana's province.  I expect we shall find her at
work.'
</p>

<p>
Sure enough, there was Dingy helping two servants to
arrange plates of highly coloured cakes down a trestle-table.
Two other servants in the background were cutting
sandwiches.  Dingy, too, was obviously enjoying herself.
</p>

<p>
'Jane, Emily, remember that that butter has to do for
three loaves.  Spread it thoroughly, but don't waste it, and
cut the crusts as thin as possible.  Father, will you see to it
that the boys who come in with their parents come in <i>alone</i>?
You remember last time how Briggs brought in four boys
with him, and they ate all the jam sandwiches before
Colonel Loder had had any.  Mr Pennyfeather, the champagne-cup
is <i>not</i> for the masters.  In fact, I expect you will
find yourselves too much occupied helping the visitors to
have any tea until they have left the tent.  You had better
tell Captain Grimes that, too.  I am sure Mr Prendergast
would not think of pushing himself forward.'
</p>

<p>
Outside the marquee were assembled several seats and
tubs of palms and flowering shrubs.  'All this must be set in
order,' said the Doctor; 'our guests may arrive in less than
an hour.'  He passed on.  'The cars shall turn aside from the
drive here and come right into the ground.  It will give a
pleasant background to the photographs, and, Pennyfeather,
if you would with tact direct the photographer so that more
prominence was given to Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's Hispano
Suiza than to Lady Circumference's little motor-car, I think
it would be all to the good.  All these things count, you
know.'
</p>

<p>
'Nothing seems to have been done about marking out the
ground,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No,' said the Doctor, turning his attention to the field
for the first time, 'nothing.  Well, you must do the best you
can.  They can't do everything.'
</p>

<p>
'I wonder if any hurdles have come?'
</p>

<p>
'They were ordered,' said the Doctor.  'I am certain of it.
Philbrick, have any hurdles come?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Philbrick with a low chuckle.
</p>

<p>
'Why, pray, do you laugh at the mention of hurdles?'
</p>

<p>
'Just you look at them!' said Philbrick.  'They're behind
the tea-house there.'
</p>

<p>
Paul and the Doctor went to look and found a pile of
spiked iron railings in sections heaped up at the back of the
marquee.  They were each about five feet high and were
painted green with gilt spikes.
</p>

<p>
'It seems to me that they have sent the wrong sort,' said
the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, we must do the best we can.  What other things
ought there to be?'
</p>

<p>
'Weight, hammer, javelin, long-jump pit, high-jump
posts, low hurdles, eggs, spoons and greasy pole,' said
Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'Previously competed for,' said the Doctor imperturbably.
'What else?'
</p>

<p>
'Somewhere to run,' suggested Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Why, God bless my soul, they've got the whole park!
How did you manage yesterday for the heats?'
</p>

<p>
'We judged the distance by eye.'
</p>

<p>
'Then that is what we shall have to do today.  Really, my
dear Pennyfeather, it is quite unlike you to fabricate
difficulties in this way.  I am afraid you are getting unnerved.
Let them go on racing until it is time for tea; and remember,'
he added sagely, 'the longer the race the more time it takes.
I leave the details to you.  I am concerned with <i>style</i>.  I wish,
for instance, we had a starting pistol.'
</p>

<p>
'Would this be any use?' said Philbrick, producing an
enormous service revolver.  'Only take care; it's loaded.'
</p>

<p>
'The very thing,' said the Doctor.  'Only fire into the
ground, mind.  We must do everything we can to avoid an
accident.  Do you always carry that about with you?'
</p>

<p>
'Only when I'm wearing my diamonds,' said Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'Well, I hope that is not often.  Good gracious!  Who are
these extraordinary-looking people?'
</p>

<p>
Ten men of revolting appearance were approaching from
the drive.  They were low of brow, crafty of eye and crooked
of limb.  They advanced huddled together with the loping
tread of wolves, peering about them furtively as they came,
as though in constant terror of ambush; they slavered at
their mouths, which hung loosely over their receding chins,
while each clutched under his ape-like arm a burden of
curious and unaccountable shape.  On seeing the Doctor they
halted and edged back, those behind squinting and mouthing
over their companions' shoulders.
</p>

<p>
'Crikey!' said Philbrick.  'Loonies!  This is where I shoot.'
</p>

<p>
'I refuse to believe the evidence of my eyes,' said the
Doctor.  'These creatures simply do not exist.'
</p>

<p>
After brief preliminary shuffling and nudging, an elderly
man emerged from the back of the group.  He had a rough
black beard and wore on his uneven shoulders a druidical
wreath of brass mistletoe-berries.
</p>

<p>
'Why, it's my friend the station-master!' said Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'We are the silver band the Lord bless and keep you,' said
the station-master in one breath, 'the band that no one
could beat whatever but two indeed in the Eisteddfod that
for all North Wales was look you.'
</p>

<p>
'I see,' said the Doctor; 'I see.  That's splendid.  Well, will
you please go into your tent, the little tent over there.'
</p>

<p>
'To march about you would not like us?' suggested the
station-master; 'we have a fine yellow flag look you that
embroidered for us was in silks.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no.  Into the tent!'
</p>

<p>
The station-master went back to consult with his
fellow-musicians.  There was a baying and growling and yapping
as of the jungle at moonrise, and presently he came forward
again with an obsequious, sidelong shuffle.
</p>

<p>
'Three pounds you pay us would you said indeed to at
the sports play.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, yes, that's right, three pounds.  Into the tent!'
</p>

<p>
'Nothing whatever we can play without the money first,'
said the station-master firmly.
</p>

<p>
'How would it be,' said Philbrick, 'if I gave him a clout
on the ear?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, I beg you to do nothing of the kind.  You have
not lived in Wales as long as I have.'  He took a note-case
from his pocket, the sight of which seemed to galvanize the
musicians into life; they crowded round, twitching and
chattering.  The Doctor took out three pound notes and gave
them to the station-master.  'There you are, Davies!' he
said.  'Now take your men into the tent.  They are on no
account to emerge until after tea; do you understand?'
</p>

<p>
The band slunk away, and Paul and the Doctor turned
back towards the Castle.
</p>

<p>
'The Welsh character is an interesting study,' said Dr
Fagan.  'I have often considered writing a little monograph
on the subject, but I was afraid it might make me unpopular
in the village.  The ignorant speak of them as Celts, which
is of course wholly erroneous.  They are of pure Iberian
stock—the aboriginal inhabitants of Europe who survive
only in Portugal and the Basque district.  Celts readily
intermarry with their neighbours and absorb them.  From the
earliest times the Welsh have been looked upon as an unclean
people.  It is thus that they have preserved their racial
integrity.  Their sons and daughters rarely mate with human
kind except their own blood relations.  In Wales there was no
need for legislation to prevent the conquering people
intermarrying with the conquered.  In Ireland that was
necessary, for there inter-marriage was a political matter.
In Wales it was moral.  I hope, by the way, you have no Welsh
blood?'
</p>

<p>
'None whatever,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I was sure you had not, but one cannot be too careful.  I
once spoke of this subject to the sixth form and learned later
that one of them had a Welsh grandmother.  I am afraid it
hurt his feelings terribly, poor little chap.  She came from
Pembrokeshire, too, which is of course quite a different
matter.  I often think,' he continued, 'that we can trace almost
all the disasters of English history to the influence of Wales.
Think of Edward of Carnarvon, the first Prince of Wales, a
perverse life, Pennyfeather, and an unseemly death, then
the Tudors and the dissolution of the Church, then Lloyd
George, the temperance movement, Nonconformity and
lust stalking hand in hand through the country, wasting and
ravaging.  But perhaps you think I exaggerate?  I have a
certain rhetorical tendency, I admit.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'The Welsh,' said the Doctor, 'are the only nation in the
world that has produced no graphic or plastic art, no
architecture, no drama.  They just sing,' he said with disgust,
'sing and blow down wind instruments of plated silver.  They
are deceitful because they cannot discern truth from
falsehood, depraved because they cannot discern the consequences
of their indulgence.  Let us consider,' he continued,
'the etymological derivations of the Welsh language....'
</p>

<p>
But here he was interrupted by a breathless little boy who
panted down the drive to meet them.  'Please, sir, Lord and
Lady Circumference have arrived, sir.  They're in the library
with Miss Florence.  She asked me to tell you.'
</p>

<p>
'The sports will start in ten minutes,' said the Doctor.
'Run and tell the other boys to change and go at once to
the playing-fields.  I will talk to you about the Welsh again.
It is a matter to which I have given some thought, and I
can see that you are sincerely interested.  Come in with me
and see the Circumferences.'
</p>

<p>
Flossie was talking to them in the library.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, isn't it a sweet colour?' she was saying.  'I do like
something bright myself.  Diana made it for me, she does
knit a treat, does Diana, but of course I chose the colour,
you know, because, you see, Diana's taste is all for wishy-washy
greys and browns.  Mournful, you know.  Well, here's
the dad.  Lady Circumference was just saying how much she
likes my frock what you said was vulgar, so there!'
</p>

<p>
A stout elderly woman dressed in a tweed coat and skirt
and jaunty Tyrolean hat advanced to the Doctor.  'Hullo!'
she said in a deep bass voice, 'how are you?  Sorry if we're
late, Circumference ran over a fool of a boy.  I've just been
chaffing your daughter here about her frock.  Wish I was
young enough to wear that kind of thing.  Older I get the
more I like colour.  We're both pretty long in the tooth,
eh?'  She gave Dr Fagan a hearty shake of the hand, that
obviously caused him acute pain.  Then she turned to Paul.
</p>

<p>
'So you're the Doctor's hired assassin, eh?  Well, I hope
you keep a firm hand on my toad of a son.  How's he doin'?'
</p>

<p>
'Quite well,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!' said Lady Circumference.  'The boy's a
dunderhead.  If he wasn't he wouldn't be here.  He wants
beatin' and hittin' and knockin' about generally, and then
he'll be no good.  That grass is shockin' bad on the terrace,
Doctor, you ought to sand it down and resow it, but you'll
have to take that cedar down if ever you want it to grow
properly at the side.  I hate cuttin' down a tree—like losin'
a tooth—but you have to choose, tree or grass, you can't
keep 'em both.  What d'you pay your head man?'
</p>

<p>
As she was talking Lord Circumference emerged from
the shadows and shook Paul's hand.  He had a long fair
moustache and large watery eyes which reminded Paul a
little of Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'How do you do?' he said.
</p>

<p>
'How do you do?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Fond of sport, eh?' he said.  'I mean these sort of sports?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, yes,' said Paul.  'I think they're so good for the boys.'
</p>

<p>
'Do you?  Do you think that?' said Lord Circumference
very earnestly; 'you think they're good for the boys?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul; 'don't you?'
</p>

<p>
'Me?  Yes, oh, yes.  I think so, too.  Very good for the
boys.'
</p>

<p>
'So useful in case of a war or anything,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'D'you think so?  D'you really and truly think so?  That
there's going to be another war, I mean?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I'm sure of it; aren't you?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, of course, I'm sure of it too.  And that awful bread,
and people coming on to one's own land and telling one
what one's to do with one's own butter and milk, and
commandeering one's horses!  Oh yes, all over again!  My wife
shot her hunters rather than let them go to the army.  And
girls in breeches on all the farms!  All over again!  Who do
you think it will be this time?'
</p>

<p>
'The Americans,' said Paul stoutly.
</p>

<p>
'No, indeed, I hope not.  We had German prisoners on
two of the farms.  That wasn't so bad, but if they start
putting Americans on my land, I'll just refuse to stand it.
My daughter brought an American down to luncheon the
other day, and, do you know...?'
</p>

<p>
'Dig it and dung it,' said Lady Circumference.  'Only it's
got to be dug deep, mind.  Now how did your calceolarias
do last year?'
</p>

<p>
'I really have no idea,' said the Doctor.  'Flossie, how did
our calceolarias do?'
</p>

<p>
'Lovely,' said Flossie.
</p>

<p>
'I don't believe a word of it,' said Lady Circumference.
'Nobody's calceolarias did well last year.'
</p>

<p>
'Shall we adjourn to the playing-fields?' said the Doctor.
'I expect they are all waiting for us.'
</p>

<p>
Talking cheerfully, the party crossed the hall and went
down the steps.
</p>

<p>
'Your drive's awful wet,' said Lady Circumference.  'I
expect there's a blocked pipe somewhere.  Sure it ain't
sewage?'
</p>

<p>
'I was never any use at short distances,' Lord Circumference
was saying.  'I was always a slow starter, but I was
once eighteenth in the Crick at Rugby.  We didn't take
sports so seriously at the 'Varsity when I was up; everybody
rode.  What college were you at?'
</p>

<p>
'Scone.'
</p>

<p>
'Scone, were you?  Ever come across a young nephew of
my wife's called Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington?'
</p>

<p>
'I just met him,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'That's very interesting.  Greta, Mr Pennyfoot knows
Alastair.'
</p>

<p>
'Does he?  Well, that boy's doing no good for himself.
Got fined twenty pounds the other day, his mother told
me.  Seemed proud of it.  If my brother had been alive he'd
have licked all that out of the young cub.  It takes a man
to bring up a man.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Lord Circumference meekly.
</p>

<p>
'Who else do you know at Oxford?  Do you know Freddy
French-Wise?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'Or Tom Obblethwaite or that youngest Castleton boy?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I'm afraid not.  I had a great friend called Potts.'
</p>

<p>
'<i>Potts!</i>' said Lady Circumference, and left it at that.
</p>

<p>
All the school and several local visitors were assembled in
the field.  Grimes stood by himself, looking depressed.  Mr
Prendergast, flushed and unusually vivacious, was talking
to the Vicar.  As the headmaster's party came into sight the
Llanabba Silver Band struck up <i>Men of Harlech</i>.
</p>

<p>
'Shockin' noise,' commented Lady Circumference graciously.
</p>

<p>
The head prefect came forward and presented her with a
programme, beribboned and embossed in gold.  Another
prefect set a chair for her.  She sat down with the Doctor
next to her and Lord Circumference on the other side of
him.
</p>

<p>
'Pennyfeather,' cried the Doctor above the band, 'start
them racing.'
</p>

<p>
Philbrick gave Paul a megaphone.  'I found this in the
pavilion,' he said.  'I thought it might be useful.'
</p>

<p>
'Who's that extraordinary man?' asked Lady Circumference.
</p>

<p>
'He is the boxing coach and swimming professional,' said
the Doctor.  'A finely developed figure, don't you think?'
</p>

<p>
'First race,' said Paul through the megaphone, 'under
sixteen, Quarter-mile!'  He read out Grimes's list of starters.
</p>

<p>
'What's Tangent doin' in this race?' said Lady Circumference.
'The boy can't run an inch.'
</p>

<p>
The silver band stopped playing.
</p>

<p>
'The course,' said Paul, 'starts from the pavilion, goes
round that clump of elms...'
</p>

<p>
'Beeches,' corrected Lady Circumference loudly.
</p>

<p>
'... and ends in front of the band-stand.  Starter, Mr
Prendergast; timekeeper, Captain Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'I shall say, "Are you ready? one, two, three!" and then
fire,' said Mr Prendergast.  'Are you ready?  One'—there was
a terrific report.  'Oh dear!  I'm sorry'—but the race had
begun.  Clearly Tangent was not going to win; he was
sitting on the grass crying because he had been wounded
in the foot by Mr Prendergast's bullet.  Philbrick carried
him, wailing dismally into the refreshment tent, where
Dingy helped him off with his shoe.  His heel was slightly
grazed.  Dingy gave him a large slice of cake, and he hobbled
out surrounded by a sympathetic crowd.
</p>

<p>
'That won't hurt him,' said Lady Circumference, 'but I
think some one ought to remove the pistol from that old
man before he does anything serious.'
</p>

<p>
'I knew that was going to happen,' said Lord Circumference.
</p>

<p>
'A <i>most</i> unfortunate beginning,' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'Am I going to die?' said Tangent, his mouth full of cake.
</p>

<p>
'For God's sake, look after Prendy,' said Grimes in Paul's
ear.  'The man's as tight as a lord, and on one whisky, too.'
</p>

<p>
'First blood to me!' said Mr Prendergast gleefully.
</p>

<p>
'The last race will be run again,' said Paul down the
megaphone.  'Starter, Mr Philbrick; timekeeper, Mr
Prendergast.'
</p>

<p>
'On your marks!  Get set.'  Bang went the pistol, this time
without disaster.  The six little boys scampered off through
the mud, disappeared behind the beeches and returned
rather more slowly.  Captain Grimes and Mr Prendergast
held up a piece of tape.
</p>

<p>
'Well run, sir!' shouted Colonel Sidebotham.  'Jolly good
race.
</p>

<p>
'Capital,' said Mr Prendergast, and dropping his end of
the tape, he sauntered over to the Colonel.  'I can see you
are a fine judge of a race, sir.  So was I once.  So's Grimes.  A
capital fellow, Grimes, a bounder, you know, but a capital
fellow.  Bounders can be capital fellows, don't you agree,
Colonel Slidebottom?  In fact, I'd go further and say that
capital fellows <i>are</i> bounders.  What d'you say to that?  I wish
you'd stop pulling at my arm, Pennyfeather.  Colonel
Shybotham and I are just having a most interesting
conversation about bounders.'
</p>

<p>
The silver band struck up again, and Mr Prendergast
began a little jig, saying: 'Capital fellow!'
and snapping his fingers.  Paul led him to the refreshment
tent.
</p>

<p>
'Dingy wants you to help her in there,' he said firmly,
'and, for God's sake, don't come out until you feel better.'
</p>

<p>
'I never felt better in my life,' said Mr Prendergast
indignantly.  'Capital fellow! capital fellow!'
</p>

<p>
'It is not my affair, of course,' said Colonel Sidebotham,
'but if you ask me I should say that man had been
drinking.'
</p>

<p>
'He was talking very excitedly to me,' said the Vicar,
'about some apparatus for warming a church in Worthing
and about the Apostolic Claims of the Church of Abyssinia.
I confess I could not follow him clearly.  He seems deeply
interested in Church matters.  Are you quite sure he is right
in the head?  I have noticed again and again since I have
been in the Church that lay interest in ecclesiastical matters
is often a prelude to insanity.'
</p>

<p>
'Drink, pure and simple,' said the Colonel.  'I wonder
where he got it?  I could do with a spot of whisky.'
</p>

<p>
'Quarter-mile Open!' said Paul through his megaphone.
</p>

<p>
Presently the Clutterbucks arrived.  Both the parents were
stout.  They brought with them two small children, a
governess, and an elder son.  They debouched from the car
one by one, stretching their limbs in evident relief.
</p>

<p>
'This is Sam,' said Mr Clutterbuck, 'just down from
Cambridge.  He's joined me in the business, and we've
brought the nippers along for a treat.  Don't mind, do you,
Doc?  And last, but not least, my wife.'
</p>

<p>
Dr Fagan greeted them with genial condescension and
found them seats.
</p>

<p>
'I am afraid you have missed all the jumping events,' he
said.  'But I have a list of the results here.  You will see that
Percy has done extremely well.'
</p>

<p>
'Didn't know the little beggar had it in him.  See that,
Martha?  Percy's won the high-jump and the long-jump and
the hurdles.  How's your young hopeful been doing, Lady
Circumference?'
</p>

<p>
'My boy has been injured in the foot,' said Lady
Circumference coldly.
</p>

<p>
'Dear me!  Not badly, I hope?  Did he twist his ankle in
the jumping?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Lady Circumference, 'he was shot at by one of
the assistant masters.  But it is kind of you to inquire.'
</p>

<p>
'Three Miles Open!' announced Paul.  'The course of six
laps will be run as before.'
</p>

<p>
'On your marks!  Get set.'  Bang went Philbrick's revolver.
Off trotted the boys on another race.
</p>

<p>
'Father,' said Flossie, 'don't you think it's time for the
tea interval?'
</p>

<p>
'Nothing can be done before Mrs Beste-Chetwynde
arrives,' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
Round and round the muddy track trotted the athletes
while the silver band played sacred music unceasingly.
</p>

<p>
'Last lap!' announced Paul.
</p>

<p>
The school and the visitors crowded about the tape to
cheer the winner.  Amid loud applause Clutterbuck breasted
the tape well ahead of the others.
</p>

<p>
'Well run!  Oh, good, jolly good, sir!' cried Colonel
Sidebotham.
</p>

<p>
'Good old Percy!  That's the stuff,' said Mr Clutterbuck.
</p>

<p>
'Well run, Percy!' chorused the two little Clutterbucks,
prompted by their governess.
</p>

<p>
'That boy cheated,' said Lady Circumference.  'He only
went round five times.  I counted.'
</p>

<p>
'I think unpleasantness so mars the afternoon,' said the
Vicar.
</p>

<p>
'How dare you suggest such a thing?' asked Mrs Clutterbuck.
'I appeal to the referee.  Percy ran the full course,
didn't he?'
</p>

<p>
'Clutterbuck wins,' said Captain Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'Fiddlesticks!' said Lady Circumference.  'He deliberately
lagged behind and joined the others as they went behind the
beeches.  The little toad!'
</p>

<p>
'Really, Greta,' said Lord Circumference, 'I think we
ought to abide by the referee's decision.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, they can't expect me to give away the prizes, then.
Nothing would induce me to give that boy a prize.'
</p>

<p>
'Do you understand, madam, that you are bringing a
serious accusation against my son's honour?'
</p>

<p>
'Serious accusation, fiddlesticks!  What he wants is a jolly
good hidin'.'
</p>

<p>
'No doubt you judge other people's sons by your own.
Let me tell you, Lady Circumference...'
</p>

<p>
'Don't attempt to browbeat me, sir.  I know a cheat when
I see one.'
</p>

<p>
At this stage of the discussion the Doctor left Mrs
Hope-Browne's side, where he had been remarking upon her son's
progress in geometry, and joined the group round the
winning post.
</p>

<p>
'If there is a disputed decision,' he said genially, 'they
shall race again.'
</p>

<p>
'Percy has won already,' said Mr Clutterbuck.  'He has
been adjudged the winner.'
</p>

<p>
'Splendid! splendid!  A promising little athlete.  I
congratulate you, Clutterbuck.'
</p>

<p>
'But he only ran five laps,' said Lady Circumference.
</p>

<p>
'Then clearly he has won the five furlongs race, a very
exacting length.'
</p>

<p>
'But the other boys,' said Lady Circumference, almost
beside herself with rage, 'have run six lengths.'
</p>

<p>
'Then they,' said the Doctor imperturbably, 'are first,
second, third, fourth and fifth respectively in the Three
Miles.  Clearly there has been some confusion.  Diana, I
think we might now serve tea.'
</p>

<p>
Things were not easy, but there was fortunately a distraction,
for as he spoke an enormous limousine of dove-grey
and silver stole soundlessly on to the field.
</p>

<p>
'But what could be more opportune?  Here is Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde.'
</p>

<p>
Three light skips brought him to the side of the car, but
the footman was there before him.  The door opened, and
from the cushions within emerged a tall young man in a
clinging dove-grey overcoat.  After him, like the first breath
of spring in the Champs-Elysées, came Mrs Beste-Chetwynde—two
lizard-skin feet, silk legs, chinchilla body, a
tight little black hat, pinned with platinum and diamonds,
and the high invariable voice that may be heard in any
Ritz Hotel from New York to Buda-Pest.
</p>

<p>
'I hope you don't mind my bringing Chokey, Dr Fagan?'
she said.  'He's just crazy about sport.'
</p>

<p>
'I sure am that,' said Chokey.
</p>

<p>
'Dear Mrs Beste-Chetwynde!' said Dr Fagan; 'dear, dear,
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde!'  He pressed her glove, and for the
moment was at a loss for words of welcome, for 'Chokey',
though graceful of bearing and irreproachably dressed, was
a negro.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER IX
<br/>
<i>The Sports—continued</i>
</h3>

<p>
The refreshment tent looked very nice.  The long table
across the centre was covered with a white cloth.  Bowls of
flowers were ranged down it at regular intervals, and
between them plates of sandwiches and cakes and jugs of
lemonade and champagne-cup.  Behind it against a
background of palms stood the four Welsh housemaids in clean
caps and aprons pouring out tea.  Behind them again sat
Mr Prendergast, a glass of champagne-cup in his hand, his
wig slightly awry.  He rose unsteadily to his feet at the
approach of the guests, made a little bow, and then sat
down again rather suddenly.
</p>

<p>
'Will you take round the <i>foie gras</i> sandwiches, Mr Pennyfeather?'
said Dingy.  'They are not for the boys or Captain
Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'One for little me!' said Flossie as he passed her.
</p>

<p>
Philbrick, evidently regarding himself as one of the
guests, was engaged in a heated discussion on
greyhound-racing with Sam Clutterbuck.
</p>

<p>
'What price the coon?' he asked as Paul gave him a
sandwich.
</p>

<p>
'It does my heart good to see old Prendy enjoying
himself,' said Grimes.  'Pity he shot that kid, though.'
</p>

<p>
'There's not much the matter with him to see the way
he's eating his tea.  I say, this is rather a poor afternoon,
isn't it?'
</p>

<p>
'Circulate, old boy, circulate.  Things aren't going too
smoothly.'
</p>

<p>
Nor indeed were they.  The sudden ebullition of
ill-feeling over the Three-mile race, though checked by the
arrival of Mrs Beste-Chetwynde, was by no means
forgotten.  There were two distinctly hostile camps in the
tea-tent.  On one side stood the Circumferences, Tangent, the
Vicar, Colonel Sidebotham and the Hope-Brownes, on the
other the seven Clutterbucks, Philbrick, Flossie and two or
three parents who had been snubbed already that afternoon
by Lady Circumference.  No one spoke of the race, but
outraged sportsmanship glinted perilously in every eye.
Several parents, intent on their tea, crowded round Dingy
and the table.  Eminently aloof from all these stood Chokey
and Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.  Clearly the social balance was
delicately poised, and the issue depended upon them.  With
or without her nigger, Mrs Beste-Chetwynde was a woman
of vital importance.
</p>

<p>
'Why, Dr Fagan,' she was saying, 'it is too disappointing
that we've missed the sports.  We had just the slowest
journey, stopping all the time to see the churches.  You can't
move Chokey once he's seen an old church.  He's just crazy
about culture, aren't you, darling?'
</p>

<p>
'I sure am that,' said Chokey.
</p>

<p>
'Are you interested in music?' said the Doctor tactfully.
</p>

<p>
'Well, just you hear that, Baby,' said Chokey; 'am <i>I</i>
interested in music?  I should say I am.'
</p>

<p>
'He plays just too divinely,' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.
</p>

<p>
'Has he heard my new records, would you say?'
</p>

<p>
'No, darling, I don't expect he has.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, just you hear <i>them</i>, sir, and then you'll know—am
I interested in music.'
</p>

<p>
'Now, darling, don't get discouraged.  I'll take you over
and introduce you to Lady Circumference.  It's his inferiority-complex,
the angel.  He's just crazy to meet the aristocracy,
aren't you, my sweet?'
</p>

<p>
'I sure am that,' said Chokey.
</p>

<p>
'I think it's an insult bringing a nigger here,' said Mrs
Clutterbuck.  'It's an insult to our own women.'
</p>

<p>
'Niggers are all right,' said Philbrick.  'Where I draw a
line is a Chink, nasty inhuman things.  I had a pal bumped
off by a Chink once.  Throat cut horrible, it was, from ear to
ear.'
</p>

<p>
'Good gracious!' said the Clutterbuck governess, 'was that
in the Boxer rising?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Philbrick cheerfully.  'Saturday night in the
Edgware Road.  Might have happened to any of us.'
</p>

<p>
'What did the gentleman say?' asked the children.
</p>

<p>
'Never you mind, my dears.  Run and have some more of
the green cake.'
</p>

<p>
They ran off obediently, but the little boy was later
heard whispering to his sister as she knelt at prayers, 'cut
horrible from ear to ear', so that until quite late in her life
Miss Clutterbuck would feel a little faint when she saw a
'bus that was going to the Edgware Road.
</p>

<p>
'I've got a friend lives in Savannah,' said Sam, 'and he's
told me a thing or two about niggers.  Of course it's hardly a
thing to talk about before the ladies, but, to put it bluntly,
<i>they have uncontrollable passions</i>.  See what I mean?'
</p>

<p>
'What a terrible thing!' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'You can't blame 'em, mind: it's just their nature.
Animal, you know.  Still, what I do say is, since they're
like that, the less we see of them the better.'
</p>

<p>
'Quite,' said Mr Clutterbuck.
</p>

<p>
'I had such a curious conversation just now,' Lord
Circumference was saying to Paul, 'with your bandmaster
over there.  He asked me whether I should like to meet his
sister-in-law; and when I said, "Yes, I should be delighted to,"
he said that it would cost a pound normally, but that he'd
let me have special terms.  What <i>can</i> he have meant, Mr
Pennyfoot?'
</p>

<p>
''Pon my soul,' Colonel Sidebotham was saying to the
Vicar, 'I don't like the look of that nigger.  I saw enough
of Fuzzy-Wuzzy in the Soudan—devilish good enemy and
devilish bad friend.  I'm going across to talk to Mrs Clutterbuck.
Between ourselves, I think Lady C. went a bit far.  I
didn't see the race myself, but there are limits....'
</p>

<p>
'Rain ain't doin' the turnip crop any good,' Lady
Circumference was saying.
</p>

<p>
'No, indeed,' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.  'Are you in
England for long?'
</p>

<p>
'Why, I live in England, of course,' said Lady
Circumference.
</p>

<p>
'My dear, how divine!  But don't you find it just too
expensive?'
</p>

<p>
This was one of Lady Circumference's favourite topics,
but somehow she did not feel disposed to enlarge on it to
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde with the same gusto as when she
was talking to Mrs Sidebotham and the Vicar's wife.  She
never felt quite at ease with people richer than herself.
</p>

<p>
'Well, we all feel the wind a bit since the war,' she said
briefly.  'How's Bobby Pastmaster?'
</p>

<p>
'Dotty,' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde, 'terribly dotty, and
he and Chokey don't get on.  You'll like Chokey.  He's just
crazy about England, too.  We've been round all the
cathedrals, and now we're going to start on the country
houses.  We were thinking of running over to see you at
Castle Tangent one afternoon.'
</p>

<p>
'That would be delightful, but I'm afraid we are in
London at present.  Which did you like best of the cathedrals,
Mr Chokey?'
</p>

<p>
'Chokey's not really his name, you know.  The angel's
called "Mr Sebastian Cholmondley".'
</p>

<p>
'Well,' said Mr Cholmondley, 'they were all fine, just
fine.  When I saw the cathedrals my heart just rose up and
sang within me.  I sure am crazy about culture.  You folk
think because we're coloured we don't care about nothing
but jazz.  Why, I'd give all the jazz in the world for just
one little stone from one of your cathedrals.'
</p>

<p>
'It's quite true.  He would.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, that's most interesting, Mr Cholmondley.  I used
to live just outside Salisbury when I was a girl, but, little
as I like jazz, I never felt quite as strongly as that about it.'
</p>

<p>
'Salisbury is full of historical interest, Lady Circumference,
but in my opinion York Minster is the more
refined.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, you angel!' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.  'I could eat
you up every bit.'
</p>

<p>
'And is this your first visit to an English school?' asked
the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'I should say not.  Will you tell the Doctor the schools
I've seen?'
</p>

<p>
'He's been to them all, even the quite new ones.  In fact,
he liked the new ones best.'
</p>

<p>
'They were more spacious.  Have you ever seen Oxford?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, in fact, I was educated there.'
</p>

<p>
'Were you, now?  I've seen Oxford and Cambridge and
Eton and Harrow.  That's me all over.  That's what I like,
see?  <i>I</i> appreciate art.  There's plenty coloured people come
over here and don't see nothing but a few night clubs.  I
read Shakespeare,' said Chokey, '<i>Hamlet, Macbeth, King
Lear</i>.  Ever read them?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said the Doctor, 'as a matter of fact, I have.'
</p>

<p>
'My race,' said Chokey, 'is essentially an artistic race.
We have the child's love of song and colour and the child's
natural good taste.  All you white folks despise the poor
coloured man....'
</p>

<p>
'No, no,' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'Let him say his piece, the darling,' said Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde.  'Isn't he divine?'
</p>

<p>
'You folks all think the coloured man hasn't got a soul.
Anything's good enough for the poor coloured man.  Beat
him, put him in chains; load him with burdens....'  Here
Paul observed a responsive glitter in Lady Circumference's
eye.  'But all the time that poor coloured man has a soul
same as you have.  Don't he breathe the same as you?  Don't
he eat and drink?  Don't he love Shakespeare and cathedrals
and the paintings of the old masters same as you?  Isn't he
just asking for your love and help to raise him from the
servitude into which your forefathers plunged him?  Oh,
say, white folks, why don't you stretch out a helping hand
to the poor coloured man, that's as good as you are, if
you'll only let him be?'
</p>

<p>
'My sweet,' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde, 'you mustn't get
discouraged.  They're all friends here.'
</p>

<p>
'Is that so?' said Chokey.  'Should I sing them a song?'
</p>

<p>
'No, don't do that, darling.  Have some tea.'
</p>

<p>
'I had a friend in Paris,' said the Clutterbuck governess,
'whose sister knew a girl who married one of the black
soldiers during the war, and you wouldn't believe what he
did to her.  Joan and Peter, run and see if Daddy wants
some more tea.  He tied her up with a razor strop and left
her on the stone floor for the night without food or covering.
And then it was over a year before she could get a divorce.'
</p>

<p>
'Used to cut the tent ropes,' Colonel Sidebotham was
saying, 'and then knife the poor beggars through the
canvas.'
</p>

<p>
'You can see 'em in Shaftesbury Avenue and Charing
Cross Road any night of the week,' Sam Clutterbuck was
saying.  'The women just hanging on to 'em.'
</p>

<p>
'The mistake was ever giving them their freedom,' said
the Vicar.  'They were far happier and better looked after
before.'
</p>

<p>
'It's queer,' said Flossie, 'that a woman with as much
money as Mrs Beste-Chetwynde should wear such <i>dull</i>
clothes.'
</p>

<p>
'That ring didn't cost less than five hundred,' said
Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'Let's go and talk to the Vicar about God,' said Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde.  'Chokey thinks religion is just divine.'
</p>

<p>
'My race is a very spiritual one,' said Chokey.
</p>

<p>
'The band has been playing <i>Men of Harlech</i> for over
half an hour,' said the Doctor.  'Diana, do go and tell them
to try something else.'
</p>

<p>
'I sometimes think I'm getting rather bored with
coloured people,' Mrs Beste-Chetwynde said to Lady
Circumference.  'Are you?'
</p>

<p>
'I have never had the opportunity.'
</p>

<p>
'I daresay you'd be good with them.  They take a lot of
living up to; they <i>are</i> so earnest.  Who's that dear, dim,
drunk little man?'
</p>

<p>
'That is the person who shot my son.'
</p>

<p>
'My dear, how too shattering for you.  Not dead, I hope?
Chokey shot a man at a party the other night.  He gets gay
at times, you know.  It's only when he's on his best behaviour
that he's so class-conscious.  I must go and rescue the Vicar.'
</p>

<p>
The station-master came into the tent, crab-like and
obsequious.
</p>

<p>
'Well, my good man?' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'The young lady I have been telling that no other tunes
can we play whatever with the lady smoking at her
cigarette look you.'
</p>

<p>
'God bless my soul;  Why not?'
</p>

<p>
'The other tunes are all holy tunes look you.  Blasphemy,
it would be to play the songs of Sion while the lady at a
cigarette smokes whatever.  <i>Men of Harlech</i> is good music
look you.'
</p>

<p>
'This is most unfortunate.  I can hardly ask Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde to stop smoking.  Frankly, I regard this as
impertinence.'
</p>

<p>
'But no man can you ask against his Maker to blaspheme
whatever unless him to pay more you were.  Three pounds
for the music is good and one for the blasphemy look you.'
</p>

<p>
Dr Fagan gave him another pound.  The station-master
retired, and in a few minutes the silver band began a
singularly emotional rendering of <i>In Thy courts no more
are needed Sun by day and Moon by night</i>.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER X
<br/>
<i>Post Mortem</i>
</h3>

<p>
As the last car drove away the Doctor and his daughters
and Paul and Grimes walked up the drive together towards
the Castle.
</p>

<p>
'Frankly the day has been rather a disappointment to
me,' said the Doctor.  'Nothing seemed to go quite right in
spite of all our preparations.'
</p>

<p>
'And expense,' said Dingy.
</p>

<p>
'I am sorry, too, that Mr Prendergast should have had
that unfortunate disagreement with Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's
coloured friend.  In all the ten years during which we have
worked together I have never known Mr Prendergast so
self-assertive.  It was <i>not</i> becoming of him.  Nor was it
Philbrick's place to join in.  I was seriously alarmed.  They
seemed so angry, and all about some minor point of
ecclesiastical architecture.'
</p>

<p>
'Mr Cholmondley was very sensitive,' said Flossie.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, he seemed to think that Mr Prendergast's insistence
on the late development of the rood-screen was in some way
connected with colour-prejudice.  I wonder why that was?
To my mind it showed a very confused line of thought.
Still, it would have been more seemly if Mr Prendergast
had let the matter drop, and what could Philbrick know of
the matter?'
</p>

<p>
'Philbrick is not an ordinary butler,' said Dingy.
</p>

<p>
'No, indeed not,' said the Doctor.  'I heartily deplore his
jewellery.'
</p>

<p>
'I didn't like Lady Circumference's speech,' said Flossie.
'Did you?'
</p>

<p>
'I did not,' said the Doctor, 'nor, I think, did Mrs
Clutterbuck.  I thought her reference to the Five Furlong
race positively brutal.  I was glad Clutterbuck had done so
well in the jumping yesterday.'
</p>

<p>
'She rather wanders from the point, doesn't she?' said
Dingy.  'All that about hunting, I mean.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't think Lady Circumference is conscious of any
definite divisions in the various branches of sport.  I have
often observed in women of her type a tendency to regard
all athletics as inferior forms of fox-hunting.  It is <i>not</i>
logical.  Besides, she was nettled at some remark of Mr
Cholmondley's about cruelty to animals.  As you say, it was
irrelevant and rather unfortunate.  I also resented the
references to the Liberal party.  Mr Clutterbuck has stood
three times, you know.  Taken as a whole, it was <i>not</i> a
happy speech.  I was quite glad when I saw her drive
away.'
</p>

<p>
'What a pretty car Mrs Beste-Chetwynde has got!' said
Flossie, 'but how ostentatious of her to bring a footman.'
</p>

<p>
'I can forgive the footman,' said Dingy, 'but I can't
forgive Mr Cholmondley.  He asked me whether I had ever
heard of a writer called Thomas Hardy.'
</p>

<p>
'He asked <i>me</i> to go to Reigate with him for the weekend,'
said Flossie, '... in rather a sweet way, too.'
</p>

<p>
'Florence, I trust you refused?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh yes,' said Flossie sadly, 'I refused.'
</p>

<p>
They went on up the drive in silence.  Presently Dingy
asked: 'What are we going to do about those fireworks you
insisted on buying?  Everyone has gone away.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't feel in a mood for fireworks,' said the Doctor.
'Perhaps another time, but not now.'
</p>

<p>
Back in the Common Room, Paul and Grimes subsided
moodily into the two easy-chairs.  The fire, unattended
since luncheon, had sunk to a handful of warm ashes.
</p>

<p>
'Well, old boy,' said Grimes, 'so that's over.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'All the gay throng melted away?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Back to the daily round and cloistral calm?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'As a beano,' said Grimes, 'I have known better.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Lady C.'s hardly what you might call bonhomous.'
</p>

<p>
'Hardly.'
</p>

<p>
'Old Prendy made rather an ass of himself?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'Hullo, old boy!  You sound a bit flat.  Feeling the strain
of the social vortex, a bit giddy after the gay wheel, eh?'
</p>

<p>
'I say, Grimes,' said Paul, 'what d'you suppose the
relationship is between Mrs Beste-Chetwynde and that
nigger?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I don't suppose she trots round with him just for
the uplift of his conversation, do you?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I suppose not.'
</p>

<p>
'In fact, I don't mind diagnosing a simple case of good
old sex.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I suppose you're right.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm sure of it.  Great Scott, what's that noise?'
</p>

<p>
It was Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'Prendy, old man,' said Grimes, 'you've let down the
morale of the Common Room a pretty good wallop.'
</p>

<p>
'Damn the Common Room!' said Mr Prendergast.
'What does the Common Room know about rood-screens?'
</p>

<p>
'That's all right, old boy.  We're all friends here.  What
you say about rood-screens goes.'
</p>

<p>
'They'll be questioning the efficacy of infant baptism
next.  The Church has never countenanced lay opinion on
spiritual matters.  Now if it were a question of food and
drink,' said Mr Prendergast, 'if it were a question of
drink—  But not infant baptism.  Just drink.'  And he sat down.
</p>

<p>
'A sad case, brother,' said Grimes, 'truly a sad case.
Prendy, do you realize that in two minutes the bell will
go for Prep. and you're oh duty?'
</p>

<p>
'Ding, dong, dell!  Pussy's in the well.'
</p>

<p>
'Prendy, that's irrelevant.'
</p>

<p>
'I know several songs about bells.  Funeral bells, wedding
bells, sacring bells, sheep-bells, fire-bells, door-bells,
dumb-bells and just plain bells.'
</p>

<p>
Paul and Grimes looked at each other sadly.
</p>

<p>
'It seems to me,' said Paul, 'that one of us will have to
take Prep. for him tonight.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, old boy; that'll be all right,' said Grimes.  'You
and I are off to Mrs Roberts'.  Prendy gives me a thirst.'
</p>

<p>
'But we can't leave him like this.'
</p>

<p>
'He'll be all right.  The little beasts can't make any more
noise than they do usually.'
</p>

<p>
'You don't think the old man will find him?'
</p>

<p>
'Not a chance.'
</p>

<p>
The bell rang.  Mr Prendergast jumped to his feet,
straightened his wig and steadied himself gravely against
the chimney-piece.
</p>

<p>
'There's a good chap,' said Grimes gently.  'Just you
trot down the passage to the little boys and have a good
nap.'
</p>

<p>
Singing quietly to himself, Mr Prendergast sauntered
down the passage.
</p>

<p>
'I hope he's none the worse for this,' said Grimes.  'You
know, I feel quite fatherly towards old Prendy.  He did give
it to that blackamoor about Church architecture, bless him.'
</p>

<p>
Arm in arm they went down the main avenue towards the inn.
</p>

<p>
'Mrs Beste-Chetwynde asked me to call on her in London,'
said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Did she?  Well, just you go.  I've never been much of a
one for society and the smart set myself, but if you like that
sort of thing, Mrs Beste-Chetwynde is the goods all right.
Never open a paper but there's a photograph of her at some
place or other.'
</p>

<p>
'Does she photograph well?' asked Paul.  'I should rather
think that she would.'
</p>

<p>
Grimes looked at him narrowly.  'Fair to middling.  Why
the sudden interest?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I don't know.  I was just wondering.'
</p>

<p>
At Mrs Roberts' they found the Llanabba Silver Band
chattering acrimoniously over the division of the spoils.
</p>

<p>
'All the afternoon the band I have led in <i>Men of Harlech</i>
and sacred music too look you and they will not give me a
penny more than themselves whatever.  The college gentleman
whatever if it is right I ask,' said the station-master,
'me with a sister-in-law to support too look you.'
</p>

<p>
'Now don't bother, old boy,' said Grimes, 'because, if
you do, I'll tell your pals about the extra pound you got
out of the Doctor.'
</p>

<p>
The discussion was resumed in Welsh, but it was clear
that the station-master was slowly giving way.
</p>

<p>
'That's settled him all right.  Take my tip, old boy, never
get mixed up in a Welsh wrangle.  It doesn't end in blows,
like an Irish one, but goes on for ever.  They'll still be
discussing that three pounds at the end of term; just you
see.
</p>

<p>
'Has Mr Beste-Chetwynde been dead long?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I shouldn't say so; why?'
</p>

<p>
'I was just wondering.'
</p>

<p>
They sat for some time smoking in silence.
</p>

<p>
'If Beste-Chetwynde is fifteen,' said Paul, 'that doesn't
necessarily make her more than thirty-three, does it?'
</p>

<p>
'Old boy,' said Grimes, 'you're in love.'
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!'
</p>

<p>
'Smitten?' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'No, no.'
</p>

<p>
'The tender passion?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'Cupid's jolly little darts?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'Spring fancies, love's young dream?'
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!'
</p>

<p>
'Not even a quickening of the pulse?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'A sweet despair?'
</p>

<p>
'Certainly not.'
</p>

<p>
'A trembling hope?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'A <i>frisson</i>?  a <i>Je ne sais quoi</i>?'
</p>

<p>
'Nothing of the sort.'
</p>

<p>
'Liar!' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
There was another long pause.  'Grimes,' said Paul at
length, 'I wonder if you can be right?'
</p>

<p>
'Sure of it, old boy.  Just you go in and win.  Here's to
the happy pair!  May all your troubles be little ones.'
</p>

<p>
In a state of mind totally new to him, Paul accompanied
Grimes back to the Castle.  Prep. was over.  Mr Prendergast
was leaning against the fire-place with a contented smile
on his face.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo, Prendy, old wine-skin!  How are things with you?'
</p>

<p>
'Admirable,' said Mr Prendergast.  'I have never known
them better.  I have just caned twenty-three boys.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER XI
<br/>
<i>Philbrick—continued</i>
</h3>

<p>
Next day Mr Prendergast's self-confidence had evaporated.
</p>

<p>
'Head hurting?' asked Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'Well, as a matter of fact, it is rather.'
</p>

<p>
'Eyes tired?  Thirsty?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, a little.'
</p>

<p>
'Poor old Prendy!  Don't I know?  Still, it was worth it,
wasn't it?'
</p>

<p>
'I don't remember very clearly all that happened, but I
walked back to the Castle with Philbrick, and he told me
all about his life.  It appears he is really a rich man and not
a butler at all.'
</p>

<p>
'I know,' said Paul and Grimes simultaneously.
</p>

<p>
'You both knew?  Well, it came as a great surprise to me,
although I must admit I had noticed a certain superiority
in his manner.  But I find almost everyone like that.  Did
he tell you his whole story—about his shooting the
Portuguese Count and everything?'
</p>

<p>
'No, he didn't tell me <i>that</i>,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Shooting a Portuguese count?  Are you sure you've got
hold of the right end of the stick, old boy?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, yes, I'm sure of it.  It impressed me very much.
You see Philbrick is really Sir Solomon Philbrick, the
shipowner.'
</p>

<p>
'The novelist, you mean,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'The retired burglar,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
The three masters looked at each other.
</p>

<p>
'Old boys, it seems to me someone's been pulling our legs.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, this is the story that he told me,' continued Mr
Prendergast.  'It all started from our argument about
Church architecture with the black man.  Apparently
Philbrick has a large house in Carlton House Terrace.'
</p>

<p>
'Camberwell Green.'
</p>

<p>
'Cheyne Walk.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I'm telling you what he told me.  He has a house
in Carlton House Terrace.  I remember the address well
because a sister of Mrs Crump's was once governess in a
house in the same row, and he used to live there with an
actress who, I regret to say, was not his wife.  I forget her
name, but I know it is a particularly famous one.  He was
sitting in the Athenaeum Club one day when the Archbishop
of Canterbury approached him and said that the
Government were anxious to make him a peer, but that it
was impossible while he lived a life of such open irregularity.
Philbrick turned down the offer.  He is a Roman Catholic, I
forgot to tell you.  But all that doesn't really explain why he
is here.  It only shows how important he is.  His ships weigh
<i>hundreds</i> and <i>hundreds</i> of tons, he told me.
</p>

<p>
'Well, one evening he and this play-actress were giving a
party, and they were playing baccarat.  There was a
Portuguese count there—a very dark man from the
Legation, Philbrick said.  The game rapidly became a
personal contest between these two.  Philbrick won over
and over again until the Count had no more money left
and had signed many I.O.U.'s.  Finally, very late in the
night, he took from the Countess's hand—she was sitting
beside him with haggard eyes watching him play—an
enormous emerald.  As big as a golf ball, Philbrick said.
</p>

<p>
'"This has been an heirloom of my family since the
first Crusade," said the Portuguese Count.  "It is the one
thing which I had hoped to leave to my poor, poor little
son."  And he tossed it on to the table.
</p>

<p>
'"I will wager against it my new four-funnel, turbine-driven
liner called <i>The Queen of Arcady</i>," said Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
'"That's not enough," said the Portuguese Countess.
</p>

<p>
'"And my steam-yacht <i>Swallow</i> and four tugs and a
coaling-barge," said Philbrick.  All the party rose to applaud
his reckless bid.
</p>

<p>
'The hand was played.  Philbrick had won.  With a low
bow he returned the emerald to the Portuguese Countess.
"For your son!" he said.  Again the guests applauded, but
the Portuguese Count was livid with rage.  "You have
insulted my honour," he said.  "In Portugal we have only
one way of dealing with such an occurrence."
</p>

<p>
'There and then they went out into Hyde Park, which
was quite close.  They faced each other and fired: it was just
dawn.  At the feet of the Achilles statue Philbrick shot the
Portuguese Count dead.  They left him with his smoking
revolver in his hand.  The Portuguese Countess kissed
Philbrick's hand as she entered her car.  "No one will ever
know," she said.  "It will be taken for suicide.  It is a secret
between us."
</p>

<p>
'But Philbrick was a changed man.  The actress was
driven from his house.  He fell into a melancholy and paced
up and down his deserted home at night, overpowered by
his sense of guilt.  The Portuguese Countess rang him up,
but he told her it was the wrong number.  Finally he went
to a priest and confessed.  He was told that for three years
he must give up his house and wealth and live among the
lowest of the low.  That,' said Mr Prendergast simply, 'is
why he is here.  Wasn't that the story he told you?'
</p>

<p>
'No, it wasn't,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Not the shade of a likeness,' said Grimes.  'He told me
all about himself one evening at Mrs Roberts'.  It was like
this:
</p>

<p>
'Mr Philbrick, senior, was a slightly eccentric sort of a
cove.  He made a big pile out of diamond mines while he
was quite young and settled in the country and devoted his
declining years to literature.  He had two kids: Philbrick
and a daughter called Gracie.  From the start Philbrick was
the apple of the old chap's eye, while he couldn't stick Miss
Gracie at any price.  Philbrick could spout Shakespeare and
<i>Hamlet</i> and things by the yard before Gracie could read
"The cat sat on the mat".  When he was eight he had a
sonnet printed in the local paper.  After that Gracie wasn't in
it anywhere.  She lived with the servants like Cinderella,
Philbrick said, while he, sensible little beggar, had the best
of everything and quoted classics and flowery language to
the old boy upstairs.  After he left Cambridge he settled
down in London and wrote away like blazes.  The old man
just loved that, he had all Philbrick's books bound in blue
leather and put in a separate bookcase with a bust of
Philbrick on top.  Poor old Gracie found things a bit thin,
so she ran off with a young chap in the motor trade who
didn't know one end of a book from the other, or of a car
for that matter, as it turned out.  When the old boy popped
off he left Philbrick everything, except a few books to
Gracie.  The young man had only married her because he
thought the old boy was bound to leave her something, so
he hopped it.  That didn't worry Philbrick.  He lived for his
art, he said.  He just moved into a bigger house and went
on writing away fifteen to the dozen.  Gracie tried to get
some money out of him more than once, but he was so
busy writing books, he couldn't bother about her.  At last
she became a cook in a house at Southgate.  Next year she
died.  That didn't worry Philbrick at first.  Then after a
week or so he noticed an odd thing.  There was always a
smell of cooking all over the house, in his study, in his
bedroom, everywhere.  He had an architect in who said he
couldn't notice any smell, and rebuilt the kitchen and put
in all sorts of ventilators.  Still, the smell got worse.  It used
to hang about his clothes so that he didn't dare go out, a
horrible fatty smell.  He tried going abroad, but the whole
of Paris reeked of English cooking.  That was bad enough,
but after a time plates began rattling round his bed when
he tried to sleep at nights and behind his chair as he wrote
his books.  He used to wake up in the night and hear the
frizzling of fried fish and the singing of kettles.  Then he
knew what it was: it was Gracie haunting him.  He went
to the Society for Psychical Research, and they got through
a conversation to Gracie.  He asked how he could make
reparation.  She said that he must live among servants for
a year and write a book about them that would improve
their lot.  He tried to go the whole hog at first and started
as <i>chef</i>, but of course that wasn't really in his line, and the
family he was with got so ill, he had to leave.  So he came
here.  He says the book is most moving, and that he'll
read me bits of it some day.  Not quite the same story as
Prendy's.'
</p>

<p>
'No, it's not.  By the way, did he say anything about
marrying Dingy?'
</p>

<p>
'Not a word.  He said that as soon as the smell of cooking
wore off he was going to be the happiest man in the world.
Apparently he's engaged to a female poet in Chelsea.  He's
not the sort of cove I'd have chosen for a brother-in-law.
But then Flossie isn't really the sort of wife I'd have
chosen.  These things happen, old boy.'
</p>

<p>
Paul told them about the 'Lamb and Flag' at Camberwell
Green and about Toby Cruttwell.  'D'you think that story
is true, or yours, or Prendy's?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER XII
<br/>
<i>The Agony of Captain Grimes</i>
</h3>

<p>
Two days later Beste-Chetwynde and Paul were in the
organ-loft of the Llanabba Parish Church.
</p>

<p>
'I don't think I played that terribly well, do you, sir?'
</p>

<p>
'No.'
</p>

<p>
'Shall I stop for a bit?'
</p>

<p>
'I wish you would.'
</p>

<p>
'Tangent's foot has swollen up and turned black,' said
Beste-Chetwynde with relish.
</p>

<p>
'Poor little brute!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I had a letter from my mamma this morning,'
Beste-Chetwynde went on.  'There's a message for you in it.
Shall I read you what she says?'
</p>

<p>
He took out a letter written on the thickest possible
paper.  'The first part is all about racing and a row she's
had with Chokey.  Apparently he doesn't like the way she's
rebuilt our house in the country.  I think it was time she
dropped that man, don't you?'
</p>

<p>
'What does she say about me?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'She says: "By the way, dear boy, I must tell you that the
spelling in your last letters has been <i>just too shattering</i> for
words.  You know how terribly anxious I am for you to get
on and go to Oxford, and, everything, and I have been
thinking, don't you think it might be a good thing if we
were to have a tutor next holidays?  Would you think it too
boring?  Some one young who would fit in?  I thought,
would that good-looking young master you said you liked
care to come?  How much ought I to pay him?  I never
know these things.  I don't mean the drunk one, tho' he
was sweet too."  I think that must be you, don't you?' said
Beste-Chetwynde, 'it can hardly be Captain Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I must think that over,' said Paul.  'It sounds
rather a good idea.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, yes,' said Beste-Chetwynde doubtfully, 'it might
be all right, only there mustn't be too much of the
schoolmaster about it.  That man Prendergast beat me the other
evening.'
</p>

<p>
'And there'll be no organ lessons, either,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
Grimes did not receive the news as enthusiastically as
Paul had hoped, he was sitting over the Common Room
fire despondently biting his nails.
</p>

<p>
'Good, old boy!  That's splendid,' he said abstractedly.
'I'm glad, I am really.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, you don't sound exactly gay.'
</p>

<p>
'No, I'm not.  Fact is, I'm in the soup again.'
</p>

<p>
'Badly?'
</p>

<p>
'Up to the neck.'
</p>

<p>
'My dear chap, I <i>am</i> sorry.  What are you going to do
about it?'
</p>

<p>
'I've done the only thing. I've announced my engagement.'
</p>

<p>
'That'll please Flossie.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh yes, she's as pleased as hell about it all, damn her
nasty little eyes.'
</p>

<p>
'What did the old man say?'
</p>

<p>
'Baffled him a bit, old boy.  He's just thinking things
out at the moment.  Well, I expect everything 'll be all
right.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't see why it shouldn't be.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, there <i>is</i> a reason.  I don't think I told you before,
but fact is, I'm married already.'
</p>

<p>
That evening Paul received a summons from the Doctor.
He wore a double-breasted dinner-jacket, which he
smoothed uneasily over his hips at Paul's approach.  He
looked worried and old.
</p>

<p>
'Pennyfeather,' he said, 'I have this morning received a
severe shock, two shocks in fact.  The first was disagreeable,
but not wholly unexpected.  Your colleague, Captain Grimes,
has been convicted before me, on evidence that leaves no
possibility of his innocence, of a crime—I might almost call
it a course of action—which I can neither understand nor
excuse.  I daresay I need not particularize.  However,
that is all a minor question.  I have quite frequently
met with similar cases during a long experience in our
profession.  But what has disturbed and grieved me more
than I can moderately express is the information that he is
engaged to be married to my elder daughter.  That, Pennyfeather,
I had not expected.  In the circumstances it seemed
a humiliation I might reasonably have been spared.  I tell
you all this, Pennyfeather, because in our brief
acquaintance I have learned to trust and respect you.'
</p>

<p>
The Doctor sighed, drew from his pocket a handkerchief
of <i>crêpe de chine</i>, blew his nose with every accent of
emotion, and resumed:
</p>

<p>
'He is <i>not</i> the son-in-law I should readily have chosen.  I
could have forgiven him his wooden leg, his slavish poverty,
his moral turpitude, and his abominable features; I could
even have forgiven him his incredible vocabulary, if only
he had been a <i>gentleman</i>.  I hope you do not think me a
snob.  You may have discerned in me a certain prejudice
against the lower orders.  It is quite true.  I <i>do</i> feel deeply
on the subject.  You see, I married one of them.  But that,
fortunately, is neither here nor there.  What I really wished
to say to you was this: I have spoken to the unhappy young
woman my daughter, and find that she has no particular
inclination towards Grimes.  Indeed, I do not think that
any daughter of mine could fall as low as that.  But she is,
for some reason, uncontrollably eager to be married to
somebody fairly soon.  Now, I should be quite prepared to
offer a partnership in Llanabba to a son-in-law of whom I
approved.  The income of the school is normally not less
than three thousand a year—that is with the help of dear
Diana's housekeeping—and my junior partner would start
at an income of a thousand, and of course succeed to a larger
share upon my death.  It is a prospect that many young
men would find inviting.  And I was wondering, Pennyfeather,
whether by any chance, looking at the matter from
a businesslike point of view, without prejudice, you
understand, fair and square, taking things as they are for what
they are worth, facing facts, whether possibly <i>you</i> ... I
wonder if I make myself plain?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.  'No, sir, I'm afraid it would be impossible.
I hope I don't appear rude, but—no, really, I'm afraid...'
</p>

<p>
'That's all right, my dear boy.  Not another word!  I quite
understand.  I was afraid that would be your answer.  Well,
it must be Grimes, then.  I don't think it would be any use
approaching Mr Prendergast.'
</p>

<p>
'It was very kind of you to suggest it, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Not at all, not at all.  The wedding shall take place a
week today.  You might tell Grimes that if you see him.  I
don't want to have more to do with him than I can help.
I wonder whether it would be a good thing to give a small
party?'  For a moment a light sprang up in Dr Fagan's eyes
and then died out.  'No, no, there will be no party.  The sports
were not encouraging.  Poor little Lord Tangent is still laid
up, I hear.'
</p>

<p>
Paul returned to the Common Room with the Doctor's
message.
</p>

<p>
'Hell!' said Grimes.  'I still hoped it might fall through.'
</p>

<p>
'What d'you want for a wedding present?' Paul asked.
</p>

<p>
Grimes brightened.  'What about that binge you promised
me and Prendy?'
</p>

<p>
'All right!' said Paul.  'We'll have it tomorrow.'
</p>

<p>
The Hotel Metropole, Cwmpryddyg, is by far the grandest
hotel in the north of Wales.  It is situated on a high and
healthy eminence overlooking the strip of water that
railway companies have gallantly compared to the Bay of
Naples.  It was built in the ample days preceding the war,
with a lavish expenditure on looking-glass and marble.
Today it shows signs of wear, for it has never been quite
as popular as its pioneers hoped.  There are cracks in the
cement on the main terrace, the winter garden is draughty,
and one comes disconcertingly upon derelict bath-chairs in
the Moorish Court.  Besides this, none of the fountains ever
plays, the string band that used to perform nightly in the
ballroom has given place to a very expensive wireless set which
one of the waiters knows how to operate, there is never any
note-paper in the writing-room, and the sheets are not long
enough for the beds.  Philbrick pointed out these defects to
Paul as he sat with Grimes and Mr Prendergast drinking
cocktails in the Palm Court before dinner.
</p>

<p>
'And it isn't as though it was really cheap,' he said.
Philbrick had become quite genial during the last few days.
'Still, one can't expect much in Wales, and it is something.
I can't live without some kind of luxury for long.  I'm not
staying this evening, or I'd ask you fellows to dine with
me.'
</p>

<p>
'Philbrick, old boy,' said Grimes, 'me and my pals here
have been wanting a word with you for some time.  How
about those yarns you spun about your being a shipowner
and a novelist and a burglar?'
</p>

<p>
'Since you mention it,' said Philbrick with dignity, 'they
were untrue.  One day you shall know my full story.  It is
stranger than any fiction.  Meanwhile I have to be back at
the Castle.  Good night.'
</p>

<p>
'He certainly seems quite a swell here,' said Grimes as
they watched him disappear into the night escorted with
every obsequy by the manager and the head-waiter.  'I dare
say he <i>could</i> tell a story if he wanted to.'
</p>

<p>
'I believe it's their keys,' said Mr Prendergast suddenly.
It was the first time that he had spoken.  For twenty minutes
he had been sitting very upright in his gilt chair and very
alert, his eyes unusually bright, darting this way and that
in his eagerness to miss nothing of the gay scene about him.
</p>

<p>
'What's their keys, Prendy?'
</p>

<p>
'Why, the things they get given at the counter.  I thought
for a long time it was money.'
</p>

<p>
'Is that what's been worrying you?  Bless your heart, I
thought it was the young lady in the office you were after.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, Grimes!' said Mr Prendergast, and he blushed
warmly and gave a little giggle.
</p>

<p>
Paul led his guests into the dining-room.
</p>

<p>
'I haven't taught French for nothing all these years,' said
Grimes, studying the menu.  'I'll start with some jolly old
<i>huitres</i>.'
</p>

<p>
Mr Prendergast ate a grape-fruit with some difficulty.
'What a big orange!' he said when he had finished it.  'They
do things on a large scale here.'
</p>

<p>
The soup came in little aluminium bowls.  'What price
the ancestral silver?' said Grimes.  The Manchester
merchants on the spree who sat all round them began to look
a little askance at Paul's table.
</p>

<p>
'Some one's doing himself well on bubbly,' said Grimes
as a waiter advanced staggering under the weight of an
ice-pail from which emerged a Jeroboam of champagne.
'Good egg!  It's coming to us.'
</p>

<p>
'With Sir Solomon Philbrick's compliments to Captain
Grimes and congratulations on his approaching marriage,
sir.'
</p>

<p>
Grimes took the waiter by the sleeve.  'See here, old boy,
this Sir Solomon Philbrick—know him well?'
</p>

<p>
'He's here quite frequently, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Spends a lot of money, eh?'
</p>

<p>
'He doesn't entertain at all, but he always has the best
of everything himself, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Does he pay his bill?'
</p>

<p>
'I really couldn't say, I'm afraid, sir.  Would you be
requiring anything else?'
</p>

<p>
'All right, old boy!  Don't get sniffy.  Only he's a pal of
mine, see?'
</p>

<p>
'Really, Grimes,' said Mr Prendergast, 'I am afraid you
made him quite annoyed with your questions, and that
stout man over there is staring at us in the most marked
way.'
</p>

<p>
'I've got a toast to propose.  Prendy, fill up your glass.
Here's to Trumpington, whoever he is, who gave us the
money for this binge!'
</p>

<p>
'And here's to Philbrick,' said Paul, 'whoever <i>he</i> is!'
</p>

<p>
'And here's to Miss Fagan,' said Mr Prendergast, 'with
our warmest hopes for her future happiness!'
</p>

<p>
'Amen,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
After the soup the worst sort of sole.  Mr Prendergast
made a little joke about soles and souls.  Clearly the
dinner-party was being a great success.
</p>

<p>
'You know,' said Grimes, 'look at it how you will,
marriage is rather a grim thought.'
</p>

<p>
'The three reasons for it given in the Prayer-book have
always seemed to me quite inadequate,' agreed Mr Prendergast.
'I have never had the smallest difficulty about the
avoidance of fornication, and the other two advantages
seem to me nothing short of disastrous.'
</p>

<p>
'My first marriage,' said Grimes, 'didn't make much
odds either way.  It was in Ireland.  I was tight at the time,
and so was everyone else.  God knows what became of Mrs
Grimes.  It seems to me, though, that with Flossie I'm in
for a pretty solemn solemnization.  It's not what I should
have chosen for myself, not by a long chalk.  Still, as things
are, I suppose it's the best thing that could have happened.
I think I've about run through the schoolmastering
profession.  I don't mind telling you I might have found it
pretty hard to get another job.  There are limits.  Now I'm
set up for life, and no more worry about testimonials.  That's
something.  In fact, that's all there is to be said.  But there
have been moments in the last twenty-four hours, I don't
mind telling you, when I've gone cold all over at the
thought of what I was in for.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't want to say anything discouraging,' said Mr
Prendergast, 'but I've known Flossie for nearly ten years
now, and—'
</p>

<p>
'There isn't anything you can tell me about Flossie that
I don't know already.  I almost wish it was Dingy.  I suppose
it's too late now to change.  Oh, dear!' said Grimes despondently,
gazing into his glass.  'Oh, Lord! oh, Lord!  That I
should come to this!'
</p>

<p>
'Cheer up, Grimes.  It isn't like you to be as depressed as
this,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Old friends,' said Grimes—and his voice was charged
with emotion—'you see a man standing face to face with
retribution.  Respect him even if you cannot understand.
Those that live by the flesh shall perish by the flesh.  I am
a very sinful man, and I am past my first youth.  Who shall
pity me in that dark declivity to which my steps inevitably
seem to tend?  I have boasted in my youth and held my head
high and gone on my way careless of consequence, but ever
behind me, unseen, stood stark Justice with his two-edged
sword.'
</p>

<p>
More food was brought them.  Mr Prendergast ate with a
hearty appetite.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, why did nobody warn me?' cried Grimes in his
agony.  'I should have been told.  They should have told me
in so many words.  They should have warned me about
Flossie, not about the fires of hell.  I've risked them, and I
don't mind risking them again, but they should have told
me about marriage.  They should have told me that at the
end of that gay journey and flower-strewn path were the
hideous lights of home and the voices of children.  I should
have been warned of the great lavender-scented bed that
was laid out for me, of the wistaria at the windows, of all
the intimacy and confidence of family life.  But I daresay I
shouldn't have listened.  Our life is lived between two
homes.  We emerge for a little into the light, and then the
front door closes.  The chintz curtains shut out the sun, and
the hearth glows with the fire of home, while upstairs,
above our heads, are enacted again the awful accidents of
adolescence.  There's a home and family waiting for every
one of us.  We can't escape, try how we may.  It's the seed of
life we carry about with us like our skeletons, each one of
us unconsciously pregnant with desirable villa residences.
There's no escape.  As individuals we simply do not exist.
We are just potential home-builders, beavers and ants.  How
do we come into being?  What is birth?'
</p>

<p>
'I've often wondered,' said Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'What is this impulse of two people to build their beastly
home?  It's you and me, unborn, asserting our presence.  All
we are is a manifestation of the impulse to family life, and if
by chance we have escaped the itch ourselves, Nature forces
it upon us another way.  Flossie's got that itch enough for
two.  I just haven't.  I'm one of the blind alleys off the main
road of procreation, but it doesn't matter.  Nature always
wins.  Oh, Lord! oh, Lord!  Why didn't I die in that first
awful home?  Why did I ever hope I could escape?'
</p>

<p>
Captain Grimes continued his lament for some time in
deep bitterness of heart.  Presently he became silent and
stared at his glass.
</p>

<p>
'I wonder,' said Mr Prendergast, 'I wonder whether I
could have just a little more of this very excellent pheasant?'
</p>

<p>
'Anyway,' said Grimes, 'there shan't be any children;
I'll see to that.'
</p>

<p>
'It has always been a mystery to me why people marry,'
said Mr Prendergast.  'I can't see the smallest reason for it.
Quite happy, normal people.  Now I can understand it in
Grimes' case.  He has everything to gain by the arrangement,
but what does Flossie expect to gain?  And yet she
seems more enthusiastic about it than Grimes.  It has been
the tragedy of my life that whenever I start thinking about
any quite simple subject I invariably feel myself confronted
by some flat contradiction of this sort.  Have you ever
thought about marriage—in the abstract, I mean, of
course?'
</p>

<p>
'Not very much, I'm afraid.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't believe,' said Mr Prendergast, 'that people would
ever fall in love or want to be married if they hadn't
been told about it.  It's like abroad: no one would want to
go there if they hadn't been told it existed.  Don't you
agree?'
</p>

<p>
'I don't think you can be quite right,' said Paul, 'you see,
animals fall in love quite a lot, don't they?'
</p>

<p>
'Do they?' said Prendergast.  'I didn't know that.  What an
extraordinary thing!  But then I had an aunt whose cat used
to put its paw up to its mouth when it yawned.  It's wonderful
what animals can be taught.  There is a sea-lion at the
circus, I saw in the paper, who juggles with an umbrella
and two oranges.'
</p>

<p>
'I know what I'll do,' said Grimes.  'I'll get a
motor-bicycle.'
</p>

<p>
This seemed to cheer him up a little.  He took another
glass of wine and smiled wanly.  'I'm afraid I've not been
following all you chaps have said.  I was thinking.  What were
we talking about?'
</p>

<p>
'Prendy was telling me about a sea-lion who juggled with
an umbrella and two oranges.'
</p>

<p>
'Why, that's nothing.  I can juggle with a whacking great
bottle and a lump of ice and two knives.  Look!'
</p>

<p>
'Grimes, don't!  Everyone is looking at you.'
</p>

<p>
The head-waiter came over to remonstrate.  'Please
remember where you are, sir,' he said.
</p>

<p>
'I know where I am well enough,' said Grimes.  'I'm in
the hotel my pal Sir Solomon Philbrick is talking of buying,
and I tell you this, old boy: if he does, the first person to lose
his job will be you.  See?'
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless he stopped juggling, and Mr Prendergast
ate two <i>pêches Melba</i> undisturbed.
</p>

<p>
'The black cloud has passed,' said Grimes.  'Grimes is now
going to enjoy his evening.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER XIII
<br/>
<i>The Passing of a Public School Man</i>
</h3>

<p>
Six days later the school was given a half-holiday, and
soon after luncheon the bigamous union of Captain Edgar
Grimes and Miss Florence Selina Fagan was celebrated at
the Llanabba Parish Church.  A slight injury to his hand
prevented Paul from playing the organ.  He walked down
the church with Mr Prendergast, who, greatly to his
dismay, had been instructed by Dr Fagan to give away the
bride.
</p>

<p>
'I do not intend to be present,' said the Doctor.  'The
whole business is exceedingly painful to me.'  Everybody
else, however, was there except little Lord Tangent, whose
foot was being amputated at a local nursing home.  The
boys for the most part welcomed the event as a pleasant
variation to the rather irregular routine of their day.
Clutterbuck alone seemed disposed to sulk.
</p>

<p>
'I don't suppose that their children will be terribly
attractive,' said Beste-Chetwynde.
</p>

<p>
There were few wedding presents.  The boys had subscribed
a shilling each and had bought at a shop in Llandudno
a silver-plated teapot, coyly suggestive of <i>art nouveau</i>.
The Doctor gave them a cheque for twenty-five pounds.
Mr Prendergast gave Grimes a walking stick—'because he
was always borrowing mine'—and Dingy, rather generously,
two photograph frames, a calendar, and a tray of
Benares brassware.  Paul was the best man.
</p>

<p>
The service passed off without a hitch, for Grimes' Irish
wife did not turn up to forbid the banns.  Flossie wore a
frock of a rather noticeable velveteen and a hat with two
pink feathers to match.
</p>

<p>
'I was so pleased when I found he didn't want me to wear
white,' she said, 'though, of course, it might have been
dyed afterwards.'
</p>

<p>
Both bride and bridegroom spoke up well in the responses,
and afterwards the Vicar delivered a very moving
address on the subject of Home and Conjugal Love.
</p>

<p>
'How beautiful it is,' he said, 'to see two young people
in the hope of youth setting out with the Church's blessing
to face life together; how much more beautiful to see them
when they have grown to full manhood and womanhood
coming together and saying "Our experience of life has
taught us that <i>one</i> is not enough."'
</p>

<p>
The boys lined the path from the churchdoor to the lych-gate,
and the head prefect said: 'Three cheers for Captain
and Mrs Grimes?'
</p>

<p>
Then they returned to the Castle.  The honeymoon had
been postponed until the end of term, ten days later, and
the arrangements for the first days of their married life
were a little meagre.  'You must do the best you can,' the
Doctor had said.  'I suppose you will wish to share the same
bedroom.  I think there would be no objection to your both
moving into the large room in the West Tower.  It is a little
damp, but I daresay Diana will arrange for a fire to be
lighted there.  You may use the morning-room in the evenings,
and Captain Grimes will of course have his meals at
my table in the dining-room, not with the boys.  I do not
wish to find him sitting about in the drawing-room, nor,
of course, in my library.  He had better keep his books and
gown in the Common Room, as before.  Next term I will
consider some other arrangement.  Perhaps I could hand
over one of the lodges to you or fit up some sort of
sitting-room in the tower.  I was not prepared for a domestic
upheaval.'
</p>

<p>
Diana, who was really coming out of the business rather
creditably, put a bowl of flowers in their bedroom, and lit
a fire of reckless proportions, in which she consumed the
remains of a desk and two of the boys' play-boxes.
</p>

<p>
That evening, while Mr Prendergast was taking 'Prep.'
at the end of the passage, Grimes visited Paul in the
Common Room.  He looked rather uncomfortable in his
evening clothes.
</p>

<p>
'Well, dinner's over,' he said.  'The old man does himself
pretty well.'
</p>

<p>
'How are you feeling?'
</p>

<p>
'Not too well, old boy.  The first days are always a strain,
they say, even in the most romantic marriages.  My
father-in-law is <i>not</i> what you might call easy.  Needs thawing
gently, you know.  I suppose as a married man I oughtn't
to go down to Mrs Roberts?'
</p>

<p>
'I think it might seem odd on the first evening, don't you?'
</p>

<p>
'Flossie's playing the piano, Dingy's making up the
accounts, the old man's gone off to the library.  Don't you
think we've time for a quick one?'
</p>

<p>
Arm in arm they went down the familiar road.
</p>

<p>
'Drinks are on me tonight,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
The silver band were still sitting with their heads together
discussing the division of their earnings.
</p>

<p>
'They tell me that married this afternoon you were?' said
the station-master.
</p>

<p>
'That's right,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
'And my sister never at all you would meet whatever,'
he continued reproachfully.
</p>

<p>
'Look here, old boy,' said Grimes, 'just you shut up.
You're not being tactful.  See?  Just you keep quiet, and I'll
give you all some nice beer.'
</p>

<p>
When Mrs Roberts shut her doors for the night, Paul and
Grimes turned back up the hill.  A light was burning in the
West Tower.
</p>

<p>
'There she is, waiting for me,' said Grimes.  'Now it might
be a very romantic sight to some chaps, a light burning in
a tower window.  I knew a poem about a thing like that
once.  Forget it now, though.  I was no end of a one for poetry
when I was a kid—love and all that.  Castle towers came
in quite a lot.  Funny how one grows out of that sort of
thing.'
</p>

<p>
Inside the Castle he turned off down the main corridor.
</p>

<p>
'Well, so long, old boy!  This is the way I go now.  See you
in the morning.'  The baize door swung to behind him, and
Paul went up to bed.
</p>

<p>
Paul saw little of Grimes during the next few days.  They
met at prayers and on the way to and from their classrooms,
but the baize door that separated the school from the
Doctor's wing was also separating them.  Mr Prendergast,
now in unchallenged possession of the other easy chair, was
smoking away one evening when he suddenly said:
</p>

<p>
'You know, I miss Grimes.  I didn't think I should, but I
do.  With all his faults, he was a very cheery person.  I think
I was beginning to get on better with him.'
</p>

<p>
'He doesn't look as cheery as he did,' said Paul.  'I
don't believe that life "above stairs" is suiting him very
well.'
</p>

<p>
As it happened, Grimes chose that evening to visit them.
</p>

<p>
'D'you chaps mind if I come in for a bit?' he asked with
unwonted diffidence.  They rose to welcome him.  'Sure you
don't mind?  I won't stay long.'
</p>

<p>
'My dear man, we were just saying how much we missed
you.  Come and sit down.'
</p>

<p>
'Won't you have some of my tobacco?' said Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'Thanks, Prendy!  I just had to come in and have a chat.
I've been feeling pretty fed up lately.  Married life is <i>not</i>
all beer and skittles, I don't mind telling you.  It's not Flossie,
mind, she's been hardly any trouble at all.  In a way I've
got quite to like her.  She likes me, anyway, and that's the
great thing.  The Doctor's my trouble.  He never lets me
alone, that man.  It gets on my nerves.  Always laughing at
me in a nasty kind of way and making me feel small.  You
know the way Lady Circumference talks to the Clutterbucks—like
that.  I tell you I simply dread going into meals
in that dining-room.  He's got a sort of air as though he
always knew exactly what I was going to say before I said it,
and as if it was always a little worse than he'd expected.
Flossie says he treats <i>her</i> that way sometimes.  He does it to
me the whole time, damn him.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't expect he means it,' said Paul, 'and anyway I
shouldn't bother about it.'
</p>

<p>
'That's the point.  I'm beginning to feel he's quite right.
I suppose I am a pretty coarse sort of chap.  I don't know
anything about art, and I haven't met any grand people,
and I don't go to a good tailor, and all that.  I'm not what he
calls "out of the top drawer".  I never pretended I was, but
the thing is that up till now it hasn't worried me.  I don't
think I was a conceited sort of chap, but I felt just as good
as anyone else, and I didn't care what people thought as
long as I had my fun.  And I <i>did</i> have fun, too, and, what's
more, I enjoyed it.  But now I've lived with that man for a
week, I feel quite different.  I feel half ashamed of myself
all the time.  And I've come to recognize that supercilious
look he gives me in other people's eyes as well.'
</p>

<p>
'Ah, how well I know that feeling!' sighed Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'I used to think I was popular among the boys, but you
know I'm not, and at Mrs Roberts's they only pretended to
like me in the hope I'd stand 'em drinks.  I did too, but they
never gave me one back.  I thought it was just because they
were Welsh, but I see now it was because they despised me.
I don't blame them.  God knows I despise myself.  You
know, I used to use French phrases a certain amount—things
like <i>savoir faire</i> and <i>Je ne sais quoi</i>.  I never thought
about it, but I suppose I haven't got much of an accent.
How could I?  I've never been in France except for that war.
Well, every time I say one of them now the Doctor gives
a sort of wince as if he's bitten on a bad tooth.  I have to
think the whole time now before I say anything, to see if
there's any French in it or any of the expressions he doesn't
think refined.  Then when I do say anything my voice
sounds so funny that I get in a muddle and he winces again.
Old boy, it's been hell this last week, and it's worrying me.
I'm getting an inferiority-complex.  Dingy's like that.  She
just never speaks now.  He's always making little jokes about
Flossie's clothes, too, but I don't think the old girl sees
what's he's driving at.  That man'll have me crazy before
the term's over.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, there's only a week more,' was all that Paul could
say to comfort him.
</p>

<p>
Next morning at prayers Grimes handed Paul a letter.
'Irony,' he said.
</p>

<p>
Paul opened it and read:
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>John Clutterbuck &amp; Sons<br/>
  Wholesale Brewers and Wine Merchants</i><br/>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>My Dear Grimes,</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>The other day at the sports you asked whether there was
by any chance a job open for you at the brewery.  I don't know
if you were serious in this, but if you were a post has just
fallen vacant which I feel might suit you.  I should be glad to
offer it to any friend who has been so kind to Percy.  We
employ a certain number of travellers to go round to various
inns and hotels to sample the beer and see that it has not been
diluted or in any way adulterated.  Our junior traveller, who
was a friend of mine from Cambridge, has just developed
D.T.'s and has had to be suspended.  The salary is two
hundred a year with car and travelling expenses.  Would this
attract you at all?  If so, will you let me know during the next
few days.</i>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Yours sincerely,<br/>
  Sam Clutterbuck.</i><br/>
</p>

<p>
'Just look at that,' said Grimes.  'God's own job, and mine
for the asking!  If that had come ten days ago my whole life
might have been different.'
</p>

<p>
'You don't think of taking it now?'
</p>

<p>
'Too late, old boy, too late.  The saddest words in the
English language.'
</p>

<p>
In 'break' Grimes said to Paul: 'Look here, I've decided
to take Sam Clutterbuck's job, and be damned to the
Fagans!'  His eyes shone with excitement.  'I shan't say a word to
them.  I shall just go off.  They can do what they like about
it.  I don't care.'
</p>

<p>
'Splendid!' said Paul.  'It's much the best thing you can
do.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm going this very afternoon,' said Grimes.
</p>

<p>
An hour later, at the end of morning-school, they met
again.  'I've been thinking over that letter,' said Grimes.
'I see it all now.  It's just a joke.'
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!' said Paul.  'I'm sure it isn't.  Go and see the
Clutterbucks right away.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, they don't mean it seriously.  They've heard
about my marriage from Percy, and they're just pulling my
leg.  It was too good to be true.  Why should they offer <i>me</i> a
job like that, even if such a wonderful job exists?'
</p>

<p>
'My dear Grimes, I'm perfectly certain it was a genuine
offer.  Anyway, there's nothing to lose by going to see them.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, it's too late, old boy.  Things like that don't
happen.'  And he disappeared beyond the baize door.
</p>

<p>
Next day there was fresh trouble at Llanabba.  Two men in
stout boots, bowler hats and thick grey overcoats presented
themselves at the Castle with a warrant for Philbrick's
arrest.  Search was made for him, but it was suddenly
discovered that he had already left by the morning train for
Holyhead.  The boys crowded round the detectives with
interest and a good deal of disappointment.  They were not,
they thought, particularly impressive figures as they stood
in the hall fingering their hats and drinking whisky and
calling Dingy 'miss'.
</p>

<p>
'We've been after 'im for some time now,' said the first
detective.  'Ain't we, Bill?'
</p>

<p>
'Pretty near six months.  It's too bad, his getting away like
this.  They're getting rather restless at H.Q. about our
travelling expenses.'
</p>

<p>
'Is it a very serious case?' asked Mr Prendergast.  The
entire school were by this time assembled in the hall.  'Not
shooting or anything like that?'
</p>

<p>
'No, there ain't been no bloodshed up to date, sir.  I
oughtn't to tell about it, really, but seeing as you've all been
mixed up in it to some extent, I don't mind telling you
that I think he'll get off on a plea of insanity.  Loopy, you
know.'
</p>

<p>
'What's he been up to?'
</p>

<p>
'False pretences and impersonation, sir.  There's five
charges against him in different parts of the country, mostly
at hotels.  He represents himself as a rich man, stays there
for some time living like a lord, cashes a big cheque and then
goes off.  Calls 'isself Sir Solomon Philbrick.  Funny thing is,
I think he really believes his tale 'isself.  I've come across
several cases like that one time or another.  There was a
bloke in Somerset what thought 'e was Bishop of Bath and
Wells and confirmed a whole lot of kids—very reverent,
too.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, anyway,' said Dingy, 'he went without his wages
from here.'
</p>

<p>
'I always felt there was something untrustworthy about
that man,' said Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
'Lucky devil!' said Grimes despondently.
</p>

<p>
'I'm worried about Grimes,' said Mr Prendergast that evening.
'I never saw a man more changed.  He used to be so
self-confident and self-assertive.  He came in here quite timidly
just now and asked me whether I believed that Divine
retribution took place in this world or the next.  I began to
talk to him about it, but I could see he wasn't listening.  He
sighed once or twice and then went out without a word
while I was still speaking.'
</p>

<p>
'Beste-Chetwynde tells me he has kept in the whole of
the third form because the blackboard fell down in his
class-room this morning.  He was convinced they had
arranged it on purpose.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, they often do.'
</p>

<p>
'But in this case they hadn't.  Beste-Chetwynde said they
were quite frightened at the way he spoke to them.  Just like
an actor, Beste-Chetwynde said.'
</p>

<p>
'Poor Grimes!  I think he is seriously unnerved.  It will be
a relief when the holidays come.'
</p>

<p>
But Captain Grimes' holiday came sooner than Mr
Prendergast expected, and in a way which few people could
have foreseen.  Three days later he did not appear at morning
prayers, and Flossie, red-eyed, admitted that he had not
come in from the village the night before.  Mr Davies, the
station-master, confessed to seeing him earlier in the
evening in a state of depression.  Just before luncheon a youth
presented himself at the Castle with a little pile of clothes
he had found on the sea-shore.  They were identified without
difficulty as having belonged to the Captain.  In the breast
pocket of the jacket was an envelope addressed to the Doctor,
and in it a slip of paper inscribed with the words: THOSE
THAT LIVE BY THE FLESH SHALL PERISH BY THE FLESH.
</p>

<p>
As far as was possible this intelligence was kept from the
boys.
</p>

<p>
Flossie, though severely shocked at this untimely curtailment
of her married life, was firm in her resolution not to
wear mourning.  'I don't think my husband would have
expected it of me,' she said.
</p>

<p>
In these distressing circumstances the boys began packing
their boxes to go away for the Easter holidays.
</p>

<h2>
Part Two
</h2>

<h3>
CHAPTER I
<br/>
<i>King's Thursday</i>
</h3>

<p>
Margot Beste-Chetwynde had two houses in England—one
in London and the other in Hampshire.  Her London
house, built in the reign of William and Mary, was, by
universal consent, the most beautiful building between
Bond Street and Park Lane, but opinion was divided on the
subject of her country house.  This was very new indeed,
in fact, it was scarcely finished when Paul went to stay there
at the beginning of the Easter holidays.  No single act in
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's eventful and in many ways disgraceful
career had excited quite so much hostile comment as
the building, or rather the rebuilding, of this remarkable
house.
</p>

<p>
It was called King's Thursday, and stood on the place
which since the reign of Bloody Mary had been the seat of
the Earls of Pastmaster.  For three centuries the poverty and
inertia of this noble family had preserved its home
unmodified by any of the succeeding fashions that fell upon
domestic architecture.  No wing had been added, no window
filled in; no portico, façade, terrace, orangery, tower or
battlement marred its timbered front.  In the craze for
coal-gas and indoor sanitation, King's Thursday had slept
unscathed by plumber or engineer.  The estate-carpenter, an
office hereditary in the family of the original joiner who had
panelled the halls and carved the great staircase, did such
restorations as became necessary from time to time for the
maintenance of the fabric, working with the same tools and
with the traditional methods, so that in a few years his work
became indistinguishable from that of his grandsires.
Rushlights still flickered in the bedrooms long after all Lord
Pastmaster's neighbours were blazing away electricity, and
in the last fifty years Hampshire had gradually become
proud of King's Thursday.  From having been considered
rather a blot on the progressive county, King's Thursday
gradually became the Mecca of week-end parties.  'I thought
we might go over to tea at the Pastmasters',' hostesses
would say after luncheon on Sundays.  'You really must see
their house.  Quite unspoilt, my dear.  Professor Franks, who
was here last week, said it was recognized as the finest piece
of domestic Tudor in England.'
</p>

<p>
It was impossible to ring the Pastmasters up, but they
were always at home and unaffectedly delighted to see their
neighbours, and after tea Lord Pastmaster would lead the
new-comers on a tour round the house, along the great
galleries and into the bedrooms, and would point out the
priest-hole and the closet where the third Earl imprisoned
his wife for wishing to rebuild a smoking chimney.  'That
chimney still smokes when the wind's in the east,' he would
say, 'but we haven't rebuilt it yet.'
</p>

<p>
Later they would drive away in their big motor-cars to
their modernized manors, and as they sat in their hot baths
before dinner the more impressionable visitors might reflect
how they seemed to have been privileged to step for an hour
and a half out of their own century into the leisurely,
prosaic life of the English Renaissance, and how they had
talked at tea of field-sports and the reform of the Prayer-Book
just as the very-great-grandparents of their host might
have talked in the same chairs and before the same fire
three hundred years before, when their own ancestors,
perhaps, slept on straw or among the aromatic merchandize
of some Hanse ghetto.
</p>

<p>
But the time came when King's Thursday had to be sold.
It had been built in an age when twenty servants were not
an unduly extravagant establishment, and it was scarcely
possible to live there with fewer.  But servants, the
Beste-Chetwyndes found, were less responsive than their masters
to the charms of Tudor simplicity, the bedrooms originally
ordained for them among the maze of rafters that supported
the arches of uneven stone roof were unsuited to modern
requirements, and only the dirtiest and most tipsy of cooks
could be induced to inhabit the enormous stone-flagged
kitchen or turn the spits at the open fire.  Housemaids tended
to melt away under the recurring strain of trotting in the
bleak hour before breakfast up and down the narrow
servants' staircases and along the interminable passages with
jugs of warm water for the morning baths.  Modern democracy
called for lifts and labour-saving devices, for hot-water
taps and cold-water taps and (horrible invention!)
drinking-water taps, for gas-rings and electric ovens.
</p>

<p>
With rather less reluctance than might have been
expected, Lord Pastmaster made up his mind to sell the house;
to tell the truth, he could never quite see what all the fuss
was about; he supposed it was very historic, and all that, but
his own taste lay towards the green shutters and
semi-tropical vegetation of a villa on the French Riviera, in
which, if his critics had only realized it, he was fulfilling
the traditional character of his family far better than by
struggling on at King's Thursday.  But the County was slow
to observe this, and something very like consternation was
felt, not only in the Great Houses, but in the bungalows
and the villas for miles about, while in the neighbouring
rectories antiquarian clergymen devised folk-tales of the
disasters that should come to crops and herds when there
was no longer a Beste-Chetwynde at King's Thursday.  Mr
Jack Spire in the <i>London Hercules</i> wrote eloquently on the
'Save King's Thursday Fund', urging that it should be
preserved for the nation, but only a very small amount was
collected of the very large sum which Lord Pastmaster was
sensible enough to demand, and the theory that it was to
be transplanted and re-erected in Cincinnati found wide
acceptance.
</p>

<p>
Thus the news that Lord Pastmaster's rich sister-in-law
had bought the family seat was received with the utmost
delight by her new neighbours and by Mr Jack Spire, and
all sections of the London Press which noticed the sale.
<i>Teneat Bene Beste-Chetwynde</i>, the motto carved over the
chimney-piece in the great hall, was quoted exultantly on
all sides, for very little was known about Margot
Beste-Chetwynde in Hampshire, and the illustrated papers
were always pleased to take any occasion to embellish their
pages with her latest portrait; the reporter to whom she
remarked: 'I can't think of anything more bourgeois
and awful than timbered Tudor architecture,' did not
take in what she meant or include the statement in his
'story'.
</p>

<p>
King's Thursday had been empty for two years when
Margot Beste-Chetwynde bought it.  She had been there
once before, during her engagement.
</p>

<p>
'It's worse than I thought, far worse,' she said as she
drove up the main avenue which the loyal villagers had
decorated with the flags of the sometime allied nations in
honour of her arrival.  'Liberty's new building cannot be
compared with it,' she said, and stirred impatiently in the
car, as she remembered, many years ago, the romantic
young heiress who had walked entranced among the cut
yews, and had been wooed, how phlegmatically, in the
odour of honeysuckle.
</p>

<p>
Mr Jack Spire was busily saving St Sepulchre's, Egg
Street (where Dr Johnson is said once to have attended
Matins), when Margot Beste-Chetwynde's decision to
rebuild King's Thursday became public.  He said, very
seriously: 'Well, we did what we could,' and thought no more
about it.
</p>

<p>
Not so the neighbours, who as the work of demolition
proceeded, with the aid of all that was most pulverizing in
modern machinery, became increasingly enraged, and, in
their eagerness to preserve for the county a little of the
great manor, even resorted to predatory expeditions, from
which they would return with lumps of carved stone-work
for their rock-gardens, until the contractors were forced to
maintain an extra watchman at night.  The panelling went
to South Kensington, where it has come in for a great deal
of admiration from the Indian students.  Within nine
months of Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's taking possession the new
architect was at work on his plans.
</p>

<p>
It was Otto Friedrich Silenus's first important commission.
'Something clean and square', had been Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's
instructions, and then she had disappeared on
one of her mysterious world-tours, saying as she left: 'Please
see that it is finished by the spring.'
</p>

<p>
Professor Silenus—for that was the title by which this
extraordinary young man chose to be called—was a 'find'
of Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's.  He was not yet very famous
anywhere, though all who met him carried away deep and
diverse impressions of his genius.  He had first attracted
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's attention with the rejected design
for a chewing-gum factory which had been reproduced in a
progressive Hungarian quarterly.  His only other completed
work was the <i>décor</i> for a cinema-film of great length and
complexity of plot—a complexity rendered the more
inextricable by the producer's austere elimination of all
human characters, a fact which had proved fatal to its
commercial success.  He was starving resignedly in a
bed-sitting-room in Bloomsbury, despite the untiring efforts of
his parents to find him—they were very rich in Hamburg—when
he was offered the commission of rebuilding King's
Thursday.  'Something clean and square'—he pondered for
three hungry days upon the aesthetic implications of these
instructions, and then began his designs.
</p>

<p>
'The problem of architecture as I see it,' he told a journalist
who had come to report on the progress of his surprising
creation of ferro-concrete and aluminium, 'is the problem
of all art—the elimination of the human element from the
consideration of form.  The only perfect building must be
the factory, because that is built to house machines, not
men.  I do not think it is possible for domestic architecture to
be beautiful, but I am doing my best.  All ill comes from
man,' he said gloomily, 'please tell your readers that.  Man
is never beautiful, he is never happy except when he
becomes the channel for the distribution of mechanical
forces.'
</p>

<p>
The journalist looked doubtful.  'Now, Professor,' he said,
'tell me this.  Is it a fact that you have refused to take
any fee for the work you are doing, if you don't mind my asking?'
</p>

<p>
'It is not,' said Professor Silenus.
</p>

<p>
'Peer's Sister's-in-Law Mansion Builder refuses fee on Future
of Architecture,' thought the journalist happily.  'Will
machines live in houses?  Amazing forecast of Professor-Architect.'
</p>

<p>
Professor Silenus watched the reporter disappear down
the drive and then, taking a biscuit from his pocket, began
to munch.
</p>

<p>
'I suppose there ought to be a staircase,' he said gloomily.
'Why can't the creatures stay in one place?  Up and down,
in and out, round and round!  Why can't they sit still and
work?  Do dynamos require staircases?  Do monkeys require
houses?  What an immature, self-destructive, antiquated
mischief is man!  How obscure and gross his prancing and
chattering on his little stage of evolution!  How loathsome
and beyond words boring all the thoughts and self-approval
of this biological by-product!  this half-formed,
ill-conditioned body! this erratic maladjusted mechanism of his
soul: on one side the harmonious instincts and balanced
responses of the animal, on the other the inflexible purpose
of the engine, and between them man, equally alien from
the <i>being</i> of Nature and the <i>doing</i> of the machine, the vile
<i>becoming</i>!'
</p>

<p>
Two hours later the foreman in charge of the concrete-mixer
came to consult with the Professor.  He had not moved
from where the journalist had left him; his fawn-like eyes
were fixed and inexpressive, and the hand which had held
the biscuit still rose and fell to and from his mouth with a
regular motion, while his empty jaws champed rhythmically,
otherwise he was wholly immobile.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER II
<br/>
<i>Interlude in Belgravia</i>
</h3>

<p>
Arthur Potts knew all about King's Thursday and
Professor Silenus.
</p>

<p>
On the day of Paul's arrival in London he rang up his old
friend and arranged to dine with him at the Queen's
Restaurant in Sloane Square.  It seemed quite natural that
they should be again seated at the table where they had
discussed so many subjects of public importance, Budgets
and birth control and Byzantine mosaics.  For the first time
since the disturbing evening of the Bollinger dinner he felt
at ease.  Llanabba Castle, with its sham castellations and
preposterous inhabitants, had sunk into the oblivion that
waits upon even the most lurid of nightmares.  Here were
sweet corn and pimentoes, and white Burgundy, and the
grave eyes of Arthur Potts, and there on the peg over
his head hung the black hat he had bought in St James's
that afternoon.  For an evening at least the shadow that has
flitted about this narrative under the name of Paul Pennyfeather
materialized into the solid figure of an intelligent,
well-educated, well-conducted young man, a man who
could be trusted to use his vote at a general election with
discretion and proper detachment, whose opinion on a ballet
or a critical essay was rather better than most people's, who
could order a dinner without embarrassment and in a creditable
French accent, who could be trusted to see to luggage
at foreign railway-stations and might be expected to acquit
himself with decision and decorum in all the emergencies of
civilized life.  This was the Paul Pennyfeather who had been
developing in the placid years which preceded this story.
In fact, the whole of this book is really an account of the
mysterious disappearance of Paul Pennyfeather, so that
readers must not complain if the shadow which took his
name does not amply fill the important part of hero for
which he was originally cast.
</p>

<p>
'I saw some of Otto Silenus's work at Munich,' said Potts.
'I think that he's a man worth watching.  He was in
Moscow at one time and in the Bauhaus at Dessau.  He can't
be more than twenty-five now.  There were some photographs
of King's Thursday in a paper the other day.  It
looked extraordinarily interesting.  It's said to be the only
really <i>imaginative</i> building since the French Revolution.
He's got right away from Corbusier, anyway.'
</p>

<p>
'If people only realized,' said Paul, 'Corbusier is a pure
nineteenth-century, Manchester school utilitarian, and
that's why they like him.'
</p>

<p>
Then Paul told Potts about the death of Grimes and the
doubts of Mr Prendergast, and Potts told Paul about rather
an interesting job he had got under the League of Nations
and how he had decided not to take his Schools in
consequence and of the unenlightened attitude adopted in the
matter by Potts' father.
</p>

<p>
For an evening Paul became a real person again, but next
day he woke up leaving himself disembodied somewhere
between Sloane Square and Onslow Square.  He had to
meet Beste-Chetwynde and catch a morning train to King's
Thursday, and there his extraordinary adventures began
anew.  From the point of view of this story Paul's second
disappearance is necessary, because, as the reader will probably
have discerned already, Paul Pennyfeather would never
have made a hero, and the only interest about him arises
from the unusual series of events of which his shadow was
witness.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER III
<br/>
<i>Pervigilium Veneris</i>
</h3>

<p>
'I'm looking forward to seeing our new house,' said
Beste-Chetwynde as they drove out from the station.
'Mamma says it may be rather a surprise.'
</p>

<p>
The lodges and gates had been left undisturbed, and the
lodge-keeper's wife, white-aproned as Mrs Noah, bobbed at
the car as it turned into the avenue.  The temperate April
sunlight fell through the budding chestnuts and revealed
between their trunks green glimpses of parkland and the
distant radiance of a lake.  'English spring,' thought Paul.
'In the dreaming ancestral beauty of the English country.'  Surely,
he thought, these great chestnuts in the morning
sun stood for something enduring and serene in a world that
had lost its reason and would so stand when the chaos and
confusion were forgotten?  And surely it was the spirit of
William Morris that whispered to him in Margot
Beste-Chetwynde's motor-car about seed-time and harvest, the
superb succession of the seasons, the harmonious
inter-dependence of rich and poor, of dignity, innocence and
tradition?  But at a turn in the drive the cadence of his
thoughts was abruptly transected.  They had come into sight
of the house.
</p>

<p>
'Golly!' said Beste-Chetwynde.  'Mamma has done herself
proud this time.'
</p>

<p>
The car stopped.  Paul and Beste-Chetwynde got out,
stretched themselves, and were led across a floor of
bottle-green glass into the dining-room, where Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde was already seated at the vulcanite table
beginning her luncheon.
</p>

<p>
'My dears,' she cried, extending a hand to each of them,
'how divine to see you!  I have been waiting for this to go
straight to bed.'
</p>

<p>
She was a thousand times more beautiful than all Paul's
feverish recollections of her.  He watched her, transported.
</p>

<p>
'Darling boy, how are you?' she said.  'Do you know,
you're beginning to look rather lovely in a coltish kind of
way.  Don't you think so, Otto?'
</p>

<p>
Paul had noticed nothing in the room except Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde; he now saw that there was a young man sitting
beside her, with very fair hair and large glasses, behind
which his eyes lay like slim fish in an aquarium; they woke
from their slumber, flashed iridescent in the light, and
darted towards little Beste-Chetwynde.
</p>

<p>
'His head is too big, and his hands are too small,' said
Professor Silenus.  'But his skin is pretty.'
</p>

<p>
'How would it be if I made Mr Pennyfeather a cocktail?'
Beste-Chetwynde asked.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, Peter, dear, do.  He makes them rather well.  You
can't think what a week I've had, moving in and taking
the neighbours round the house and the Press photographers.
Otto's house doesn't seem to be a great success
with the county, does it, Otto?  What was it Lady Vanbrugh
said?'
</p>

<p>
'Was that the woman like Napoleon the Great?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, darling.'
</p>

<p>
'She said she understood that the drains were satisfactory,
but that, of course, they were underground.  I asked her if
she wished to make use of them, and said that I did, and
went away.  But, as a matter of fact, she was quite right.
They are the only tolerable part of the house.  How glad I
shall be when the mosaics are finished and I can go!'
</p>

<p>
'Don't you like it?' asked Peter Beste-Chetwynde over
the cocktail-shaker.  'I think it's so good.  It was rather
Chokey's taste before.'
</p>

<p>
'I hate and detest every bit of it,' said Professor Silenus
gravely.  'Nothing I have ever done has caused me so much
disgust.'  With a deep sigh he rose from the table and
walked from the room, the fork with which he had been
eating still held in his hand.
</p>

<p>
'Otto has real genius,' said Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.  'You
must be sweet to him, Peter.  There's a whole lot of people
coming down tomorrow for the week-end, and, my dear,
that Maltravers has invited himself again.  You wouldn't
like him for a stepfather, would you, darling?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Peter.  'If you must marry again do choose
someone young and quiet.'
</p>

<p>
'Peter, you're an angel.  I will.  But now I'm going to bed.
I had to wait to see you both.  Show Mr Pennyfeather the
way about, darling.'
</p>

<p>
The aluminium lift shot up, and Paul came down to
earth.
</p>

<p>
'That's an odd thing to ask me in a totally strange house,'
said Peter Beste-Chetwynde.  'Anyway, let's have some
luncheon.'
</p>

<p>
It was three days before Paul next saw Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.
</p>

<p>
'Don't you think that she's the most wonderful woman in
the world?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Wonderful?  In what way?'
</p>

<p>
He and Professor Silenus were standing on the terrace
after dinner.  The half-finished mosaics at their feet were
covered with planks and sacking; the great colonnade of black
glass pillars shone in the moonlight; beyond the polished
aluminium balustrade the park stretched silent and illimitable.
</p>

<p>
'The most beautiful and the most free.  She almost seems
like the creature of a different species.  Don't you feel
that?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said the Professor after a few moments' consideration.
'I can't say that I do.  If you compare her with other
women of her age you will see that the particulars in which
she differs from them are infinitesimal compared with the
points of similarity.  A few millimetres here and a few
millimetres there, such variations are inevitable in the human
reproductive system, but in all her essential functions—her
digestion, for example—she conforms to type.'
</p>

<p>
'You might say that about anybody.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I do.  But it's Margot's variations that I dislike so
much.  They are small, but obtrusive, like the teeth of a saw.
Otherwise I might marry her.'
</p>

<p>
'Why do you think she would marry you?'
</p>

<p>
'Because, as I said, all her essential functions are normal.
Anyway, she asked me to twice.  The first time I said I
would think it over, and the second time I refused.  I'm sure
I was right.  She would interrupt me terribly.  Besides,
she's getting old.  In ten years she will be almost worn
out.'
</p>

<p>
Professor Silenus looked at his watch—a platinum disc
from Cartier, the gift of Mrs Beste-Chetwynde.  'Quarter to
ten,' he said.  'I must go to bed.'  He threw the end of his
cigar clear of the terrace in a glowing parabola.  'What do
you take to make you sleep?'
</p>

<p>
'I sleep quite easily,' said Paul, 'except on trains.'
</p>

<p>
'You're lucky.  Margot takes veronal.  I haven't been to
sleep for over a year.  That's why I go to bed early.  One
needs more rest if one doesn't sleep.'
</p>

<p>
That night as Paul marked his place in <i>The Golden Bough</i>,
and, switching off his light, turned over to sleep he thought
of the young man a few bedrooms away, lying motionless in
the darkness, his hands at his sides, his legs stretched out, his
eyes closed and his brain turning regularly all
the night through, drawing in more and more power, storing
it away like honey in its intricate cells and galleries,
till the atmosphere about it became exhausted and vitiated
and only the brain remained turning and turning in the
darkness.
</p>

<p>
So Margot Beste-Chetwynde wanted to marry Otto
Silenus, and in another corner of this extraordinary house
she lay in a drugged trance, her lovely body cool and
fragrant and scarcely stirring beneath the bedclothes, and
outside in the park a thousand creatures were asleep, and
beyond that, again, were Arthur Potts, and Mr Prendergast,
and the Llanabba station-master.  Quite soon Paul fell asleep.
Downstairs Peter Beste-Chetwynde mixed himself another
brandy and soda and turned a page in <i>Havelock Ellis</i>, which,
next to <i>The Wind in the Willows</i>, was his favourite book.
</p>

<p>
The aluminium blinds shot up, and the sun poured in
through the vita-glass, filling the room with beneficent rays.
Another day had begun at King's Thursday.
</p>

<p>
From his bathroom-window Paul looked down on to the
terrace.  The coverings had been removed, revealing the
half-finished pavement of silver and scarlet.  Professor
Silenus was already out there directing two workmen with
the aid of a chart.
</p>

<p>
The week-end party arrived at various times in the course
of the day, but Mrs Beste-Chetwynde kept to her room
while Peter received them in the prettiest way possible.
Paul never learned all their names, nor was he ever sure
how many of them there were.  He supposed about eight or
nine, but as they all wore so many different clothes of
identically the same kind, and spoke in the same voice, and
appeared so irregularly at meals, there may have been
several more or several less.
</p>

<p>
The first to come were The Hon. Miles Malpractice and
David Lennox, the photographer.  They emerged with little
shrieks from an Edwardian electric brougham and made
straight for the nearest looking-glass.
</p>

<p>
In a minute the panatrope was playing, David and Miles
were dancing, and Peter was making cocktails.  The party
had begun.  Throughout the afternoon new guests arrived,
drifting in vaguely or running in with cries of welcome just
as they thought suited them best.
</p>

<p>
Pamela Popham, square-jawed and resolute as a big
game-huntress, stared round the room through her spectacles,
drank three cocktails, said: 'My God!' twice, cut two or three
of her friends, and stalked off to bed.
</p>

<p>
'Tell Olivia I've arrived when she comes,' she said to
Peter.
</p>

<p>
After dinner they went to a whist drive and dance in the
village hall.  By half-past two the house was quiet, at
half-past three Lord Parakeet arrived, slightly drunk and in
evening clothes, having 'just escaped less than one second
ago' from Alastair Trumpington's twenty-first birthday
party in London.
</p>

<p>
'Alastair was with me some of the way,' he said, 'but I
think he must have fallen out.'
</p>

<p>
The party, or some of it, reassembled in pyjamas to
welcome him.  Parakeet walked round birdlike and gay,
pointing his thin white nose and making rude little jokes at
everyone in turn in a shrill, emasculate voice.  At four the
house was again at rest.
</p>

<p>
Only one of the guests appeared to be at all ill at ease: Sir
Humphrey Maltravers, the Minister of Transportation.  He
arrived early in the day with a very large car and two very
small suit-cases, and from the first showed himself as a
discordant element in the gay little party by noticing the
absence of their hostess.
</p>

<p>
'Margot?  No, I haven't seen her at all.  I don't believe
she's terribly well,' said one of them, 'or perhaps she's lost
somewhere in the house.  Peter will know.'
</p>

<p>
Paul found him seated alone in the garden after luncheon,
smoking a large cigar, his big red hands folded before him,
a soft hat tilted over his eyes, his big red face both defiant
and disconsolate.  He bore a preternatural resemblance to his
caricatures in the evening papers, Paul thought.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo, young man!' he said.  'Where's everybody?'
</p>

<p>
'I think Peter's taking them on a tour round the house.
It's much more elaborate than it looks from outside.  Would
you care to join them?'
</p>

<p>
'No, thank you, not for me.  I came here for a rest.  These
young people tire me.  I have enough of the House during
the week.'  Paul laughed politely.  'It's the devil of a session.
You keen on politics at all?'
</p>

<p>
'Hardly at all,' Paul said.
</p>

<p>
'Sensible fellow!  I can't think why I keep on at it.  It's a
dog's life, and there's no money in it, either.  If I'd stayed
at the Bar I'd have been a rich man by now.
</p>

<p>
'Rest, rest and riches,' he said—'it's only after forty one
begins to value things of that kind.  And half one's life,
perhaps, is lived after forty.  Solemn thought that.  Bear it in
mind, young man, and it will save you from most of the
worst mistakes.  If everyone at twenty realized that half his
life was to be lived after forty...
</p>

<p>
'Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's cooking and Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's
garden,' said Sir Humphrey meditatively.  'What
could be desired more except our fair hostess herself?  Have
you known her long?'
</p>

<p>
'Only a few weeks,' Paul said.
</p>

<p>
'There's no one like her,' said Sir Humphrey.  He drew
a deep breath of smoke.  Beyond the yew hedges the panatrope
could be faintly heard.  'What did she want to build
this house for?' he asked.  'It all comes of this set she's got
into.  It's not doing her any good.  Damned awkward position
to be in—a rich woman without a husband!  Bound to get
herself talked about.  What Margot ought to do is to
marry—someone who would stabilize her position, someone,' said
Sir Humphrey, 'with a position in public life.'
</p>

<p>
And then, without any apparent connection of thought,
he began talking about himself.  '"Aim high" has been my
motto,' said Sir Humphrey, 'all through my life.  You
probably won't get what you want, but you may get something;
aim low, and you get nothing at all.  It's like throwing a
stone at a cat.  When I was a kid that used to be great sport
in our yard; I daresay you were throwing cricket-balls
when you were that age, but it's the same thing.  If you
throw straight at it, you fall short, aim above, and with luck
you score.  Every kid knows that.  I'll tell you the story of
my life.'
</p>

<p>
Why was it, Paul wondered, that everyone he met seemed
to specialize in this form of autobiography?  He supposed he
must have a sympathetic air.  Sir Humphrey told of his early
life: of a family of nine living in two rooms, of a father who
drank and a mother who had fits, of a sister who went on
the streets, of a brother who went to prison, of another
brother who was born a deaf-mute.  He told of scholarships and
polytechnics, of rebuffs and encouragements, of a University
career of brilliant success and unexampled privations.
</p>

<p>
'I used to do proof-reading for the Holywell Press,' he
said; 'then I learned shorthand and took down the
University sermons for the local papers.'
</p>

<p>
As he spoke the clipped yews seemed to grow grey with
the soot of the slums, and the panatrope in the distance took
on the gay regularity of a barrel-organ heard up a
tenement-staircase.
</p>

<p>
'We were a pretty hot lot at Scone in my time,' he said,
naming several high officers of state with easy familiarity,
'but none of them had so far to go as I had.'
</p>

<p>
Paul listened patiently, as was his habit.  Sir Humphrey's
words flowed easily, because, as a matter of fact, he was
rehearsing a series of articles he had dictated the evening
before for publication in a Sunday newspaper.  He told Paul
about his first briefs and his first general election, the
historic Liberal campaign of 1906, and of the strenuous days
just before the formation of the Coalition.
</p>

<p>
'I've nothing to be ashamed of,' said Sir Humphrey.  'I've
gone further than most people.  I suppose that, if I keep on,
I may one day lead the party.  But all this winter I've been
feeling that I've got as far as I shall ever get.  I've got to the
time when I should like to go into the other House and give
up work and perhaps keep a race-horse or two'—and his
eyes took on the far-away look of a popular actress describing
the cottage of her dreams—'and a yacht and a villa at
Monte.  The others can do that when they like, and they
know it.  It's not till you get to my age that you really feel
the disadvantage of having been born poor.'
</p>

<p>
On Sunday evening Sir Humphrey suggested a 'hand of
cards'.  The idea was received without enthusiasm.
</p>

<p>
'Wouldn't that be rather <i>fast</i>?' said Miles.  'It is Sunday.
I think cards are divine, particularly the kings.  Such <i>naughty</i>
old faces!  But if I start playing for money I always lose my
temper and cry.  Ask Pamela, she's so brave and manly.'
</p>

<p>
'Let's all play billiards and make a Real House Party of
it,' said David, 'or shall we have a Country House Rag?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I do feel such a <i>rip</i>,' said Miles when he was at last
persuaded to play.  Sir Humphrey won.  Parakeet lost thirty
pounds, and opening his pocket-book, paid him in
ten-pound notes.
</p>

<p>
'How he did cheat!' said Olivia on the way to bed.
</p>

<p>
'Did he, darling?  Well, let's <i>jolly well</i> not pay him,' said
Miles.
</p>

<p>
'It never occurred to me to do such a thing.  Why, I
couldn't afford to possibly.'
</p>

<p>
Peter tossed Sir Humphrey double or quits, and won.
</p>

<p>
'After all, I am host,' he explained.
</p>

<p>
'When I was your age,' said Sir Humphrey to Miles,
'we used to sit up all night sometimes playing poker.  Heavy
money, too.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, you wicked old thing!' said Miles.
</p>

<p>
Early on Monday morning the Minister of Transportation's
Daimler disappeared down the drive.  'I rather think he
expected to see mamma,' said Peter.  'I told him what was
the matter with her.'
</p>

<p>
'You shouldn't have done that,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No, it didn't go down awfully well.  He said that he
didn't know what things were coming to and that even in
the slums such things were not spoken about by children of
my age.  What a lot he ate!  I did my best to make him feel
at home, too, by talking about trains.'
</p>

<p>
'I thought he was a very sensible old man,' said Professor
Silenus.  'He was the only person who didn't think it
necessary to say something polite about the house.  Besides, he
told me about a new method of concrete construction
they're trying at one of the Government Superannuation
Homes.'
</p>

<p>
Peter and Paul went back to their cylindrical study and
began another spelling-lesson.
</p>

<p>
As the last of the guests departed Mrs Beste-Chetwynde
reappeared from her little bout of veronal, fresh and exquisite
as a seventeenth-century lyric.  The meadow of green glass
seemed to burst into flower under her feet as she passed
from the lift to the cocktail table.
</p>

<p>
'You poor angels!' she said.  'Did you have the hell of a
time with Maltravers?  And all those people?  I quite forget
who asked to come this week-end.  I gave up inviting people
long ago,' she said, turning to Paul, 'but it didn't make a
bit of difference.'  She gazed into the opalescent depths of
her <i>absinthe frappé</i>.  'More and more I feel the need of a
husband, but Peter is horribly fastidious.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, your men are so awful,' said Peter.
</p>

<p>
'I sometimes think of marrying old Maltravers,' said
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde, 'just to get my own back, only
"Margot Maltravers" does sound a little too much, don't
you think?  And if they give him a peerage, he's bound to
choose something quite awful....'
</p>

<p>
In the whole of Paul's life no one had ever been quite so
sweet to him as was Margot Beste-Chetwynde during the
next few days.  Up and down the shining lift shafts, in and
out of the rooms and along the labyrinthine corridors of
the great house he moved in a golden mist.  Each morning
as he dressed a bird seemed to be singing in his heart, and
as he lay down to sleep he would pillow his head against
a hand about which still hung a delicate fragrance of
Margot Beste-Chetwynde's almost unprocurable scent.
</p>

<p>
'Paul, dear,' she said one day as hand in hand, after a
rather fearful encounter with a swan, they reached the
shelter of the lake house, 'I can't bear to think of you going
back to that awful school.  Do, please, write and tell Dr
Fagan that you won't.'
</p>

<p>
The lake house was an eighteenth-century pavilion, built
on a little mound above the water.  They stood there for a
full minute still hand in hand on the crumbling steps.
</p>

<p>
'I don't quite see what else I could do,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Darling, <i>I</i> could find you a job.'
</p>

<p>
'What sort of job, Margot?'  Paul's eyes followed the swan
gliding serenely across the lake; he did not dare to look at
her.
</p>

<p>
'Well, Paul, you might stay and protect me from swans,
mightn't you?'  Margot paused and then, releasing her hand,
took a cigarette-case from her pocket.  Paul struck a match.
'My dear, what an unsteady hand!  I'm afraid you're drinking
too many of Peter's cocktails.  That child has a lot to
learn yet about the use of vodka.  But seriously, I'm sure
I can find you a better job.  It's absurd your going back to
Wales.  I still manage a great deal of my father's business,
you know, or perhaps you didn't.  It was mostly in South
America in—in places of entertainment, cabarets and hotels
and theatres, you know, and things like that.  I'm sure I
could find you a job helping in that, if you think you'd
like it.'
</p>

<p>
Paul thought of this gravely.  'Oughtn't I to know
Spanish?' he said.  It seemed quite a sensible question, but
Margot threw away her cigarette with a little laugh and
said: 'It's time to go and change.  You are being difficult
this evening, aren't you?'
</p>

<p>
Paul thought about this conversation as he lay in his
bath—a sunk bath of malachite—and all the time while he
dressed and as he tied his tie he trembled from head to foot
like one of the wire toys which street vendors dangle from
trays.
</p>

<p>
At dinner Margot talked about matters of daily interest,
about some jewels she was having reset, and how they had
come back all wrong, and how all the wiring of her London
house was being overhauled because of the fear of fire, and
how the man she had left in charge of her villa at Cannes
had made a fortune at the Casino and given her notice,
and she was afraid she might have to go out there to
arrange about it, and how the Society for the Preservation
of Ancient Buildings was demanding a guarantee that she
would not demolish her castle in Ireland, and how her cook
seemed to be going off his head that night, the dinner was
so dull, and how Bobby Pastmaster was trying to borrow
money from her again, on the grounds that she had misled
him when she bought his house and that if he had known
she was going to pull it down he would have made her pay
more.  'Which is not logical of Bobby,' she said.  'The less I
valued his house, the less I ought to have paid, surely?
Still, I'd better send him something, otherwise he'll go and
marry, and I think it may be nice for Peter to have the
title when he grows up.'
</p>

<p>
Later, when they were alone, she said: 'People talk a great
deal of nonsense about being rich.  Of course it is a bore in
some ways, and it means endless work, but I wouldn't be
poor, or even moderately well-off, for all the ease in the
world.  Would you be happy if you were rich, do you
think?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, it depends how I got the money,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I don't see how that comes in.'
</p>

<p>
'No, I don't quite mean that.  What I mean is that I
think there's only one thing that could make me really
happy, and if I got that I should be rich too, but it wouldn't
matter being rich, you see, because, however rich I was,
and I hadn't got what would make me happy, I shouldn't
be happy, you see.'
</p>

<p>
'My precious, that's rather obscure,' said Margot, 'but I
think it may mean something rather sweet.'  He looked up
at her, and her eyes met his unfalteringly.  'If it does, I'm
glad,' she added.
</p>

<p>
'Margot, darling, beloved, please, will you marry me?'  Paul
was on his knees by her chair, his hands on hers.
</p>

<p>
'Well, that's rather what I've been wanting to discuss
with you all day.'  But surely there was a tremor in her
voice?
</p>

<p>
'Does that mean that possibly you might, Margot?  Is
there a chance that you will?'
</p>

<p>
'I don't see why not.  Of course we must ask Peter about
it, and there are other things we ought to discuss first,' and
then, quite suddenly, 'Paul, dear, dear creature, come here.'
</p>

<p>
They found Peter in the dining-room eating a peach at the
sideboard.
</p>

<p>
'Hallo, you two!' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Peter, we've something to tell you,' said Margot.  'Paul
says he wants me to marry him.'
</p>

<p>
'Splendid!' said Peter.  'I <i>am</i> glad.  Is that what you've
been doing in the library?'
</p>

<p>
'Then you don't mind?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Mind?  It's what I've been trying to arrange all this week.
As a matter of fact, that's why I brought you here at all.  I
think it's altogether admirable,' he said, taking another
peach.
</p>

<p>
'You're the first man he's said that about, Paul.  I think
it's rather a good omen.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, Margot, let's get married at once.'
</p>

<p>
'My dear, I haven't said that I'm going to yet.  I'll tell
you in the morning.'
</p>

<p>
'No, tell me now, Margot.  You do like me a little, don't
you?  Please marry me just terribly soon.'
</p>

<p>
'I'll tell you in the morning.  There're several things I
must think about first.  Let's go back to the library.'
</p>

<p>
That night Paul found it unusually difficult to sleep.  Long
after he had shut his book and turned out the light he lay
awake, his eyes open, his thoughts racing uncontrollably.
As in the first night of his visit, he felt the sleepless, involved
genius of the house heavy about his head.  He and Margot
and Peter and Sir Humphrey Maltravers were just insignificant
incidents in the life of the house: this new-born
monster to whose birth ageless and forgotten cultures had
been in travail.  For half an hour he lay looking into the
darkness until gradually his thoughts began to separate
themselves from himself, and he knew he was falling asleep.
Suddenly he was roused to consciousness by the sound of his
door opening gently.  He could see nothing, but he heard
the rustle of silk as someone came into the room.  Then the
door shut again.
</p>

<p>
'Paul, are you asleep?'
</p>

<p>
'Margot!'
</p>

<p>
'Hush, dear!  Don't turn on the light.  Where are you?'  The
silk rustled again as though falling to the ground.  'It's
best to make sure, isn't it, darling, before we decide
anything?  It may be just an idea of yours that you're in love
with me.  And, you see, Paul, I like you so very much, it
would be a pity to make a mistake, wouldn't it?'
</p>

<p>
But happily there was no mistake, and next day Paul
and Margot announced their engagement.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER IV
<br/>
<i>Resurrection</i>
</h3>

<p>
Crossing the hall one afternoon a few days later, Paul met
a short man with a long red beard stumping along behind
the footman towards Margot's study.
</p>

<p>
'Good Lord!' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Not a word, old boy!' said the bearded man as he passed
on.
</p>

<p>
A few minutes later Paul was joined by Peter.  'I say,
Paul,' he said, 'who do you think's talking to Mamma?'
</p>

<p>
'I know,' said Paul.  'It's a very curious thing.'
</p>

<p>
'I somehow never felt he was dead,' said Peter.  'I told
Clutterbuck that to try and cheer him up.'
</p>

<p>
'Did it?'
</p>

<p>
'Not very much,' Peter admitted.  'My argument was that
if he'd really gone out to sea he would have left his wooden
leg behind with his clothes, but Clutterbuck said he was
very sensitive about his leg.  I wonder what he's come to see
Mamma about?'
</p>

<p>
A little later they ambushed him in the drive, and Grimes
told them.  'Forgive the beaver,' he said, 'but it's rather
important at the moment.'
</p>

<p>
'In the soup again?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Well, not exactly, but things have been rather low
lately.  The police are after me.  That suicide didn't go down
well.  I was afraid it wouldn't.  They began to fuss a bit
about no body being found and about my game leg.  And
then my other wife turned up, and that set them thinking.
Hence the vegetation.  Clever of you two to spot me.'
</p>

<p>
They led him back to the house, and Peter mixed him
a formidable cocktail, the principal ingredients of which
were absinthe and vodka.
</p>

<p>
'It's the old story,' said Grimes.  'Grimes has fallen on his
feet again.  By the way, old boy, I have to congratulate you,
haven't I?  You've done pretty well for yourself, too.'  His
eye travelled appreciatively over the glass floor, and the
pneumatic rubber furniture, and the porcelain ceiling, and
the leather-hung walls.  'It's not everyone's taste,' he said,
'but I think you'll be comfortable.  Funny thing, I never
expected to see you when I came down here.'
</p>

<p>
'What we want to know,' said Peter, 'is what brought
you down to see Mamma at all.'
</p>

<p>
'Just good fortune,' said Grimes.  'It was like this.  After I
left Llanabba I was rather at a loose end.  I'd borrowed a
fiver from Philbrick just before he left, and that got me to
London, but for a week or so things were rather thin.  I was
sitting in a pub one day in Shaftesbury Avenue, feeling my
beard rather warm and knowing I only had about five bob
left in the world, when I noticed a chap staring at me pretty
hard in the other corner of the bar.  He came over after a
bit and said: "Captain Grimes, I think?"  That rather put
the wind up me.  "No, no, old boy," I said, "quite wrong,
rotten shot.  Poor old Grimes is dead, drowned.  Davy Jones'
locker, old boy!"  And I made to leave.  Of course it wasn't a
very sensible thing to say, because, if I hadn't been Grimes,
it was a hundred to one against my knowing Grimes was
dead, if you see what I mean.  "Pity," he said, "because I
heard old Grimes was down on his luck, and I had a job I
thought might suit him.  Have a drink, anyway."  Then I
realized who he was.  He was an awful stout fellow called
Bill, who'd been quartered with me in Ireland.  "Bill," I
said, "I thought you were a bobby."  "That's all right, old
boy," said Bill.  Well, it appeared that this Bill had gone off
to the Argentine after the war and had got taken on as
manager of a...'—Grimes stopped as though suddenly
reminded of something—'a place of entertainment.  Sort of
night club, you know.  Well, he'd done rather well in that
job, and had been put in charge of a whole chain of places
of entertainment all along the coast.  They're a syndicate
owned in England.  He'd come back on leave to look for a
couple of chaps to go out with him and help.  "The Dagos
are no use at the job," he said, "not dispassionate enough."  Had
to be chaps who could control themselves where women
were concerned.  That's what made him think of me.  But
it was a pure act of God, our meeting.
</p>

<p>
'Well, apparently the syndicate was first founded by
young Beste-Chetwynde's grandpapa, and Mrs Beste-Chetwynde
still takes an interest in it, so I was sent down
to interview her and see if she agreed to the appointment.
It never occurred to me it was the same Mrs Beste-Chetwynde
who came down to the sports the day Prendy
got so tight.  Only shows how small the world is, doesn't it?'
</p>

<p>
'Did Mamma give you the job?' asked Peter.
</p>

<p>
'She did, and fifty pounds advance on my wages, and
some jolly sound advice.  It's been a good day for Grimes.
Heard from the old man lately, by the way?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul, 'I got a letter this morning,' and he
showed it to Grimes:
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Llanabba Castle<br/>
  North Wales</i><br/>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>My Dear Pennyfeather,</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Thank you for your letter and for the enclosed cheque!  I
need hardly tell you that it is a real disappointment to me to
hear that you are not returning to us next term.  I had looked
forward to a long and mutually profitable connection.  However,
my daughters and I join in wishing you every happiness
in your married life.  I hope you will use your new influence
to keep Peter at the school.  He is a boy for whom I have great
hopes.  I look to him as one of my prefects in the future.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>The holidays so far have afforded me little rest.  My
daughters and I have been much worried by the insistence
of a young Irish woman of most disagreeable appearance
and bearing who claims to be the widow of poor Captain
Grimes.  She has got hold of some papers which seem to
support her claim.  The police, too, are continually here
asking impertinent questions about the number of suits of
clothes my unfortunate son-in-law possessed.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Besides this, I have had a letter from Mr Prendergast
stating that he too wishes to resign his post.  Apparently he
has been reading a series of articles by a popular bishop and
has discovered that there is a species of person called a
'Modern Churchman' who draws the full salary of a beneficed
clergyman and need not commit himself to any religious
belief.  This seems to be a comfort to him, but it adds greatly
to my own inconvenience.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Indeed, I hardly think that I have the heart to keep on at
Llanabba.  I have had an offer from a cinema company, the
managing director of which, oddly enough, is called Sir
Solomon Philbrick, who wish to buy the Castle.  They say
that its combination of mediaeval and Georgian architecture
is a unique advantage.  My daughter Diana is anxious to
start a nursing-home or an hotel.  So you see that things are
not easy.</i>
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Yours sincerely,<br/>
  Augustus Fagan.</i><br/>
</p>

<p>
There was another surprise in store for Paul that day.
Hardly had Grimes left the house when a tall young man
with a black hat and thoughtful eyes presented himself at
the front door and asked for Mr Pennyfeather.  It was Potts.
</p>

<p>
'My dear fellow,' said Paul, 'I am glad to see you.'
</p>

<p>
'I saw your engagement in <i>The Times</i>,' said Potts, 'and,
as I was in the neighbourhood, I wondered if you'd let me
see the house.'
</p>

<p>
Paul and Peter led him all over it and explained its
intricacies.  He admired the luminous ceiling in Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde's study and the india-rubber fungi in the
recessed conservatory and the little drawing-room, of which
the floor was a large kaleidoscope, set in motion by an electric
button.  They took him up in the lift to the top of the great
pyramidical tower, from which he could look down on the
roofs and domes of glass and aluminium which glittered
like Channel diamonds in the afternoon sun.  But it was not
this that he had come to see.  As soon as he and Paul were
alone he said, as though casually: 'Who was that little man
I met coming down the drive?'
</p>

<p>
'I think he was something to do with the Society for the
Preservation of Ancient Buildings,' said Paul.  'Why?'
</p>

<p>
'Are you sure?' asked Potts in evident disappointment.
'How maddening!  I've been on a false scent again.'
</p>

<p>
'Are you doing Divorce Court shadowings, Potts?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, it's all to do with the League of Nations,' said
Potts vaguely, and he called attention to the tank of
octopuses which was so prominent a feature of the room
in which they were standing.
</p>

<p>
Margot invited Potts to stay to dinner.  He tried hard to
make a good impression on Professor Silenus, but in this he
was not successful.  In fact, it was probably Potts' visit
which finally drove the Professor from the house.  At any
rate, he left early the next morning without troubling to
pack or remove his luggage.  Two days later, when they
were all out, he arrived in a car and took away his
mathematical instruments, and some time after that again
appeared to fetch two clean handkerchiefs and a change of
underclothes.  That was the last time he was seen at King's
Thursday.  When Margot and Paul went up to London,
they had his luggage packed and left downstairs for him in
case he should come again, but there it stayed, none of
the male servants finding anything in it that he would
care to wear.  Long afterwards Margot saw the head
gardener's son going to church in a <i>batik</i> tie of Professor
Silenus's period.  It was the last relic of a great genius, for
before that King's Thursday had been again rebuilt.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER V
<br/>
<i>The Latin-American Entertainment Co. Ltd</i>
</h3>

<p>
At the end of April Peter returned to Llanabba, Dr Fagan
having announced that the sale of the Castle had not been
effected, and Margot and Paul went up to London to make
arrangements for the wedding, which, contrary to all
reasonable expectation, Margot decided was to take place
in church with all the barbaric concomitants of bridesmaids,
Mendelssohn and Mumm.  But before the wedding she had
a good deal of South American business to see to.
</p>

<p>
'My first honeymoon was rather a bore,' she said, 'so I'm
not taking any chances with this one.  I must get everything
settled before we start, and then we're going to have the
three best months of your life.'
</p>

<p>
The work seemed to consist chiefly of interviewing young
women for jobs in cabarets and as dancing partners.  With
some reluctance Margot allowed Paul to be present one
morning as she saw a new batch.  The room in which she
conducted her business was the Sports Room, which had
been decorated for her, in her absence, by little Davy
Lennox, the society photographer.  Two stuffed buffaloes
stood one on each side of the door.  The carpet was of
grass-green marked out with white lines, and the walls were
hung with netting.  The lights were in glass footballs, and
the furniture was ingeniously designed of bats and polo-sticks
and golf-clubs.  Athletic groups of the early 'nineties
and a painting of a prize ram hung on the walls.
</p>

<p>
'It's terribly common,' said Margot, 'but it rather
impresses the young ladies, which is a good thing.  Some of
them tend to be rather mannery if they aren't kept in
order.'
</p>

<p>
Paul sat in the corner—on a chair made in the shape of an
inflated Channel swimmer—enraptured at her business
ability.  All her vagueness had left her, she sat upright at
the table, which was covered with Balmoral tartan, her pen
poised over an inkpot, which was set in a stuffed grouse, the
very embodiment of the Feminist movement.  One by one
the girls were shown in.
</p>

<p>
'Name?' said Margot.
</p>

<p>
'Pompilia de la Conradine.'
</p>

<p>
Margot wrote it down.
</p>

<p>
'Real name?'
</p>

<p>
'Bessy Brown.'
</p>

<p>
'Age?'
</p>

<p>
'Twenty-two.'
</p>

<p>
'Real age?'
</p>

<p>
'Twenty-two.'
</p>

<p>
'Experience?'
</p>

<p>
'I was at Mrs Rosenbaum's, in Jermyn Street, for two
years, mum.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, Bessy, I'll see what I can do for you.  Why did you
leave Mrs Rosenbaum's?'
</p>

<p>
'She said the gentlemen liked a change.'
</p>

<p>
'I'll just ask her.'  Margot took up the telephone, which
was held by a boxing glove.  'Is that Mrs Rosenbaum?  This is
Latin-American Entertainments, Ltd., speaking.  Can you
tell me about Miss de la Conradine?
</p>

<p>... Oh, that was the reason she left you?  Thank you so much!
I rather thought that might be it.'  She rang off.  'Sorry, Bessy;
nothing for you just at present.'
</p>

<p>
She pressed the bell, which was in the eye of a salmon
trout, and another young lady was shown in.
</p>

<p>
'Name?'
</p>

<p>
'Jane Grimes.'
</p>

<p>
'Who sent you to me?'
</p>

<p>
'The gentleman at Cardiff.  He gave me this to give you.'  She
produced a crumpled envelope and handed it across the
table.  Margot read the note.  'Yes, I see.  So you're new to
the business, Jane?'
</p>

<p>
'Like a babe unborn, mum.'
</p>

<p>
'But you married?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, mum, but it was in the war,
and he was very drunk.'
</p>

<p>
'Where's your husband?'
</p>

<p>
'Dead, so they do say.'
</p>

<p>
'That's excellent, Jane.  You're just the sort we want.
How soon can you sail?'
</p>

<p>
'How soon would you be wanting me to?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, there's a vacancy in Rio I'm filling at the end of
the week.  I'm sending out two very nice girls.  Would you
like to be going with them?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, mum, very pleased, I'm sure.'
</p>

<p>
'D'you want any money in advance?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I could do with a bit to send my dad if you could
spare it.'
</p>

<p>
Margot took some notes from a drawer, counted them,
and made out the receipt.
</p>

<p>
'Sign this, will you?  I've got your address.  I'll send you
your tickets in a day or so.  How are you off for clothes?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I've got a fine silk dress, but it's at Cardiff with
the other things.  The gentleman said I'd be getting some
new clothes, perhaps.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, quite right.  I'll make a note of that.  The arrangement
we generally make is that our agent chooses the clothes
and you pay for them out of your salary in instalments.'
</p>

<p>
Mrs Grimes went out, and another girl took her place.
</p>

<p>
By luncheon time Margot Beste-Chetwynde was tired.
'Thank heavens, that's the last of them,' she said.  'Were
you terribly bored, my angel?'
</p>

<p>
'Margot, you're wonderful.  You ought to have been an
empress.'
</p>

<p>
'Don't say that you were a Christian slave, dearest.'
</p>

<p>
'It never occurred to me,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'There's a young man just like your friend Potts on the
other side of the street,' said Margot at the window.  'And,
my dear, he's picked up the last of those poor girls, the one
who wanted to take her children and her brother with her.'
</p>

<p>
'Then it can't be Potts,' said Paul lazily.  'I say, Margot,
there was one thing I couldn't understand.  Why was it that
the less experience those chorus-girls had, the more you
seemed to want them?  You offered much higher wages to
the ones who said they'd never had a job before.'
</p>

<p>
'Did I, darling?  I expect it was because I feel so absurdly
happy.'
</p>

<p>
At the time this seemed quite a reasonable explanation,
but, thinking the matter over, Paul had to admit to himself
that there had been nothing noticeably light-hearted in
Margot's conduct of her business.
</p>

<p>
'Let's have luncheon out today,' said Margot.  'I'm tired
of this house.'
</p>

<p>
They walked across Berkeley Square together in the sunshine.
A footman in livery stood on the steps of one of the
houses.  A hatter's van, emblazoned with the royal arms,
trotted past them on Hay Hill, two cockaded figures
upright upon the box.  A very great lady, bolstered up in
an old-fashioned landaulette, bowed to Margot with an
inclination she had surely learned in the Court of the
Prince Consort.  All Mayfair seemed to throb with the
heart of Mr Arlen.
</p>

<p>
Philbrick sat at the next table at the <i>Maison Basque</i>
eating the bitter little strawberries which are so cheap in
Provence and so very expensive in Dover Street.
</p>

<p>
'Do come and see me some time,' he said.  'I'm living up
the street at Batts's.'
</p>

<p>
'I hear you're buying Llanabba,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Well, I thought of it,' said Philbrick.  'But I'm afraid it's
too far away, really.'
</p>

<p>
'The police came for you soon after you left,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'They're bound to get me some time,' said Philbrick.
'But thanks for the tip all the same!  By the way, you might
warn your fiancée that they'll be after her soon, if she's not
careful.  That League of Nations Committee is getting busy
at last.'
</p>

<p>
'I haven't the least idea what you mean,' said Paul, and
returned to his table.
</p>

<p>
'Obviously the poor man's dotty,' said Margot when he
told her of the conversation.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VI
<br/>
<i>A Hitch in the Wedding Preparations</i>
</h3>

<p>
Meanwhile half the shops in London were engaged on
the wedding preparations.  Paul asked Potts to be his best
man, but a letter from Geneva declined the invitation.  In
other circumstances this might have caused him embarrassment,
but during the past fortnight Paul had received so
many letters and invitations from people he barely remembered
meeting that his only difficulty in filling his place was
the fear of offending any of his affectionate new friends.
Eventually he chose Sir Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington,
because he felt that, however indirectly, he owed him a
great deal of his present good fortune.  Sir Alastair readily
accepted, at the same time borrowing the money for a new
tall hat, his only one having come to grief a few nights
earlier.
</p>

<p>
A letter from Onslow Square, which Paul left unanswered,
plainly intimated that Paul's guardian's daughter
would take it as a personal slight, and as a severe blow to her
social advancement, if she were not chosen as one of the
bridesmaids.
</p>

<p>
For some reason or other Paul's marriage seemed to
inspire the public as being particularly romantic.  Perhaps
they admired the enterprise and gallantry with which
Margot, after ten years of widowhood, voluntarily exposed
herself to a repetition of the hundred and one horrors of a
fashionable wedding, or perhaps Paul's sudden elevation
from schoolmaster to millionaire struck a still vibrant chord
of optimism in each of them, so that they said to themselves
over their ledgers and typewriters: 'It may be me next
time.'  Whatever the reason, the wedding was certainly an
unparalleled success among the lower orders.  Inflamed by
the popular Press, a large crowd assembled outside St
Margaret's on the eve of the ceremony equipped, as for a
first night, with collapsible chairs, sandwiches and spirit
stoves, while by half-past two, in spite of heavy rain, it had
swollen to such dimensions that the police were forced to
make several baton charges, and many guests were crushed
almost to death in their attempts to reach the doors, and the
route down which Margot had to drive was lined as for a
funeral with weeping and hysterical women.
</p>

<p>
Society was less certain in its approval, and Lady Circumference,
for one, sighed for the early nineties, when Edward
Prince of Wales, at the head of <i>ton</i>, might have given
authoritative condemnation to this ostentatious second
marriage.
</p>

<p>
'It's maddenin' Tangent having died just at this time,'
she said.  'People may think that that's my reason for
refusin'.  I can't imagine that <i>anyone</i> will go.'
</p>

<p>
'I hear your nephew Alastair Trumpington is the best
man,' said Lady Vanbrugh.
</p>

<p>
'You seem to be as well informed as my chiropodist,' said
Lady Circumference with unusual felicity, and all Lowndes
Square shook at her departure.
</p>

<p>
In the unconverted mewses of Mayfair and the upper
rooms of Shepherd's Market and North Audley Street, where
fashionable bachelors lurk disconsolately on their evenings
at home, there was open lamentation at the prey that had
been allowed to slip through their elegantly gloved fingers,
while more than one popular dancing man inquired
anxiously at his bank to learn whether his month's remittance
had been paid in as usual.  But Margot remained loyal
to all her old obligations, and invitations to her wedding
reception were accepted by whole bevies of young men who
made it their boast that they never went out except to a
square meal, while little Davy Lennox, who for three years
had never been known to give any one a 'complimentary
sitting', took two eloquent photographs of the back of her
head and one of the reflection of her hands in a bowl of ink.
</p>

<p>
Ten days before the wedding Paul moved into rooms at
the Ritz, and Margot devoted herself seriously to shopping.
Five or six times a day messengers appeared at his suite
bringing little by-products of her activity—now a platinum
cigarette-case, now a dressing-gown, now a tie-pin or a pair
of links—while Paul, with unaccustomed prodigality,
bought two new ties, three pairs of shoes, an umbrella and
a set of Proust.  Margot had fixed his personal allowance at
two thousand a year.
</p>

<p>
Far away in the Adriatic feverish preparations were being
made to make Mrs Beste-Chetwynde's villa at Corfu ready
for the first weeks of her honeymoon, and the great bed,
carved with pine-apples, that had once belonged to
Napoleon III, was laid out for her reception with fragrant
linen and pillows of unexampled softness.  All this the
newspapers retailed with uncontrolled profusion, and many a
young reporter was handsomely commended for the luxuriance
of his adjectives.
</p>

<p>
However, there was a hitch.
</p>

<p>
Three days before the date fixed for the wedding Paul
was sitting in the Ritz opening his morning's post, when
Margot rang him up.
</p>

<p>
'Darling, rather a tiresome thing's happened,' she said.
'You know those girls we sent off to Rio the other day?
Well, they're stuck at Marseilles, for some reason or other.
I can't quite make out why.  I think it's something to do
with their passports.  I've just had a very odd cable from
my agent there.  He's giving up the job.  It's such a bore all
this happening just now.  I do so want to get everything
fixed before Thursday.  I wonder if you could be an angel and
go over and see to it for me?  It's probably only a matter of
giving the right man a few hundred francs.  If you fly you'll
be back in plenty of time.  I'd go myself, only you know,
don't you, darling, I simply haven't one minute to spare.'
</p>

<p>
Paul did not have to travel alone.  Potts was at Croydon,
enveloped in an ulster and carrying in his hand a little
attaché-case.
</p>

<p>
'League of Nations business,' he said, and was twice sick
during the flight.
</p>

<p>
At Paris Paul was obliged to charter a special aeroplane.
Potts saw him off.
</p>

<p>
'Why are you going to Marseilles?' he asked.  'I thought
you were going to be married.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm only going there for an hour or two, to see some
people on business,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
How like Potts, he thought, to suppose that a little
journey like this was going to upset his marriage.  Paul was
beginning to feel cosmopolitan, the Ritz today, Marseilles
tomorrow, Corfu next day, and afterwards the whole world
stood open to him like one great hotel, his way lined for
him with bows and orchids.  How pathetically insular poor
Potts was, he thought, for all his talk of internationalism.
</p>

<p>
It was late evening when Paul arrived at Marseilles.  He
dined at Basso's in the covered balcony off bouillabaisse and
Meursault at a table from which he could see a thousand
lights reflected in the still water.  Paul felt very much a man
of the world as he paid his bill, calculated the correct tip and
sat back in the open cab on his way to the old part of the
town.
</p>

<p>
'They'll probably be at <i>Alice's</i>, in the Rue de Reynarde,'
Margot had said.  'Anyway, you oughtn't to have any
difficulty in finding them if you mention my name.'
</p>

<p>
At the corner of the Rue Ventomargy the carriage stopped.
The way was too narrow and too crowded for traffic.  Paul
paid the driver.  '<i>Merci, Monsieur!  Gardez bien votre
chapeau</i>,' he said as he drove off.  Wondering what the
expression could mean, Paul set off with less certain steps
down the cobbled alley.  The houses overhung perilously on
each side, gaily alight from cellar to garret; between them
swung lanterns; a shallow gutter ran down the centre of the
path.  The scene could scarcely have been more sinister had
it been built at Hollywood itself for some orgiastic incident
of the Reign of Terror.  Such a street in England, Paul
reflected, would have been saved long ago by Mr Spire and
preserved under a public trust for the sale of brass toasting
forks, picture postcards and 'Devonshire teas'.  Here the
trade was of a different sort.  It did not require very much
worldly wisdom to inform him of the character of the
quarter he was now in.  Had he not, guide-book in hand,
traversed the forsaken streets of Pompeii?
</p>

<p>
No wonder, Paul reflected, that Margot had been so
anxious to rescue her protégées from this place of
temptation and danger.
</p>

<p>
A negro sailor, hideously drunk, addressed Paul in no
language known to man, and invited him to have a drink.
He hurried on.  How typical of Margot that, in all her whirl
of luxury, she should still have time to care for the poor
girls she had unwittingly exposed to such perils.
</p>

<p>
Deaf to the polyglot invitations that arose on all sides,
Paul pressed on his way.  A young lady snatched his hat
from his head; he caught a glimpse of her bare leg in a
lighted doorway, then she appeared at a window, beckoning
him to come in and retrieve it.
</p>

<p>
All the street seemed to be laughing at him.  He hesitated,
and then, forsaking, in a moment of panic, both his black
hat and his self-possession, he turned and fled for the broad
streets and the tram lines where, he knew at heart, was his
spiritual home.
</p>

<p>
By daylight the old town had lost most of its terrors.  Washing
hung out between the houses, the gutters ran with fresh
water and the streets were crowded with old women carrying
baskets of fish.  <i>Chez Alice</i> showed no sign of life, and
Paul was forced to ring and ring before a tousled old
concierge presented himself.
</p>

<p>
'<i>Avez-vous les jeunes filles de Madame Beste-Chetwynde?</i>'
Paul asked, acutely conscious of the absurdity of the
question.
</p>

<p>
'Sure, step right along, Mister,' said the concierge; 'she
wired us you was coming.'
</p>

<p>
Mrs Grimes and her two friends were not yet dressed,
but they received Paul with enthusiasm in dressing-gowns
which might have satisfied the taste for colour of the elder
Miss Fagan.  They explained the difficulty of the passports,
which, Paul thought, was clearly due to some misapprehension
by the authorities of their jobs in Rio.  They didn't
know any French, and of course they had explained things
wrong.
</p>

<p>
He spent an arduous morning at consulates and police
bureaux.  Things were more difficult than he had thought,
and the officials received him either with marked coldness
or with incomprehensible winks and innuendo.
</p>

<p>
Things had been easier six months ago, they said, but
now, with the League of Nations—And they shrugged
their shoulders despairingly.  Perhaps it might be arranged
once more, but Madame Beste-Chetwynde must really
understand that there were forms that must be respected.
Eventually the young ladies were signed on as
stewardesses.
</p>

<p>
'And if they should not go further with me than Rio,'
said the captain, 'well, I have a sufficient staff already.
You say there are posts waiting for them there?  No doubt
their employers will be able to arrange things there with
the authorities.'
</p>

<p>
But it cost Paul several thousand francs to complete the
arrangements.  'What an absurd thing the League of
Nations seems to be!' said Paul.  'They seem to make it
harder to get about instead of easier.'  And this, to his
surprise, the officials took to be a capital joke.
</p>

<p>
Paul saw the young ladies to their ship, and all three
kissed him goodbye.  As he walked back along the quay he
met Potts.
</p>

<p>
'Just arrived by the morning train,' he said.  Paul felt
strongly inclined to tell him his opinion of the League of
Nations, but remembering Potts' prolixity in argument and
the urgency of his own departure, he decided to leave his
criticisms for another time.  He stopped long enough in
Marseilles to cable to Margot, 'Everything arranged
satisfactorily.  Returning this afternoon.  All my love' and then
left for Paris by air, feeling that at last he had done
something to help.
</p>

<p>
At ten o'clock on his wedding morning Paul returned to the
Ritz.  It was raining hard, and he felt tired, unshaven and
generally woebegone.  A number of newspaper reporters
were waiting for him outside his suite, but he told them
that he could see no one.  Inside he found Peter
Beste-Chetwynde, incredibly smart in his first morning-coat.
</p>

<p>
'They've let me come up from Llanabba for the day,' he
said.  'To tell you the truth, I'm rather pleased with myself
in these clothes.  I bought you a button-hole in case you'd
forgotten.  I say, Paul, you're looking tired.'
</p>

<p>
'I am, rather.  Turn on the bath for me like an angel.'
</p>

<p>
When he had had his bath and shaved he felt better.
Peter had ordered a bottle of champagne and was a little
tipsy.  He walked round the room, glass in hand, talking
gaily, and every now and then pausing to look at himself
in the mirror.  'Pretty smart,' he said, 'particularly the tie;
don't you think so, Paul?  I think I shall go back to the
school like this.  That would make them see what a superior
person I am.  I hope you notice that I gave you the grander
button-hole?  I can't tell you what Llanabba is like this
term, Paul.  Do try and persuade Mamma to take me away.
Clutterbuck has left, and Tangent is dead, and the three
new masters are quite awful.  One is like your friend Potts,
only he stutters, and Brolly says he's got a glass eye.  He's
called Mr Makepeace.  Then there's another one with red
hair who keeps beating every one all the time, and the
other's rather sweet, really, only he has fits.  I don't think
the Doctor cares for any of them much.  Flossie's been
looking rather discouraged all the time.  I wonder if Mamma
could get her a job in South America?  I'm glad you're
wearing a waistcoat like that.  I nearly did, but I thought
perhaps I was a bit young.  What do you think?  We had a
reporter down at the school the other day wanting to know
particulars about you.  Brolly told a splendid story about
how you used to go out swimming in the evenings and
swim for hours and hours in the dark composing elegiac
verses, and then he spoilt it by saying you had webbed feet
and a prehensile tail, which made the chap think he was
having his leg pulled.  I say, am I terribly in the way?'
</p>

<p>
As Paul dressed his feeling of well-being began to return.
He could not help feeling that he too looked rather smart.
Presently Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington came in, and
drank some champagne.
</p>

<p>
'This wedding of ours is about the most advertised thing
that's happened for a generation,' he said.  'D'you know,
the <i>Sunday Mail</i> has given me fifty pounds to put my name
to an article describing my sensations as best man.  I'm
afraid everyone will know it's not me, though; it's too
jolly well written.  I've had a marvellous letter from Aunt
Greta about it, too.  Have you seen the presents?  The
Argentine Chargé d'Affaires has given you the works of
Longfellow bound in padded green leather, and the Master
of Scone has sent those pewter plates he used to have in his
hall.'
</p>

<p>
Paul fastened the gardenia in his button-hole, and they
went down to luncheon.  There were several people in the
restaurant obviously dressed for a wedding, and it gave
Paul some satisfaction to notice that he was the centre of
interest of the whole room.  The <i>maître d'hôtel</i> offered his
graceful good wishes as he led them to their table.  Peter,
earlier in the morning, had ordered the luncheon.
</p>

<p>
'I doubt if we shall have time to eat it all,' he said, 'but
fortunately the best things all come at the beginning.'
</p>

<p>
As he was peeling his second plover's egg, Paul was called
away to the telephone.
</p>

<p>
'Darling,' said Margot's voice, 'how are you?  I've been so
anxious all the time you were away.  I had an awful feeling
something was going to stop you coming back.  Are you all
right, dearest?  Yes, I'm terribly well.  I'm at home having
luncheon in my bedroom and feeling, my dear, I can't tell
you how virginal, really and truly completely debutante.  I
hope you'll like my frock.  It's Boulanger, darling, do you
mind?  Goodbye, my sweet.  Don't let Peter get too drunk,
will you?'
</p>

<p>
Paul went back to the dining-room.
</p>

<p>
'I've eaten your eggs,' said Peter.  'I just couldn't help it.'
</p>

<p>
By two o'clock they had finished their luncheon.  Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde's second-best Hispano Suiza was waiting
in Arlington Street.
</p>

<p>
'You must just have one more drink with me before you
go,' said the best man, 'there's heaps of time.'
</p>

<p>
'I think perhaps it would be a mistake if I did,' said
Peter.
</p>

<p>
Paul and his best man refilled their glasses with brandy.
</p>

<p>
'It is a funny thing,' said Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington.
'No one could have guessed that when I had the
Boller blind in my rooms it was going to end like this.'
</p>

<p>
Paul turned the liqueur round in his glass, inhaled its
rich bouquet for a second, and then held it before him.
</p>

<p>
'To Fortune,' he said, 'a much-maligned lady!'
</p>

<p>
'Which of you gentlemen is Mr Paul Pennyfeather?'
</p>

<p>
Paul put down his glass and turned to find an elderly
man of military appearance standing beside him.
</p>

<p>
'I am,' he said.  'But I'm afraid that, if you're from the
Press, I really haven't time ...'
</p>

<p>
'I'm Inspector Bruce, of Scotland Yard,' said the
stranger.  'Will you be so good as to speak to me for a
minute outside?'
</p>

<p>
'Really, officer,' said Paul, 'I'm in a great hurry.  I
suppose it's about the men to guard the presents.  You
should have come to me earlier.'
</p>

<p>
'It's not about presents, and I couldn't have come earlier.
The warrant for your arrest has only this minute been
issued.'
</p>

<p>
'Look here,' said Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington,
'don't be an ass.  You've got the wrong man.  They'll laugh
at you like blazes over this at Scotland Yard.  This is the
Mr Pennyfeather who's being married today.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't know anything about that,' said Inspector Bruce.
'All I know is, there's a warrant out for his arrest, and that
anything he says may be used as evidence against him.
And as for you, young man, I shouldn't attempt to obstruct
an officer of the law, not if I was you.'
</p>

<p>
'It's all some ghastly mistake,' said Paul.  'I suppose I
must go with this man.  Try and get on to Margot and
explain to her.'
</p>

<p>
Sir Alastair's amiable pink face gaped blank astonishment.
'Good God,' he said, 'how damned funny!  At least it would
be at any other time.'  But Peter, deadly white, had left the
restaurant.
</p>

<h2>
Part Three
</h2>

<h3>
CHAPTER I
<br/>
<i>Stone Walls do not a Prison Make</i>
</h3>

<p>
Paul's trial, which took place some weeks later at the Old
Bailey, was a bitter disappointment to the public, the news
editors and the jury and counsel concerned.  The arrest at the
Ritz, the announcement at St Margaret's that the wedding
was postponed, Margot's flight to Corfu, the refusal of bail,
the meals sent in to Paul on covered dishes from Boulestin's,
had been 'front-page stories' every day.  After all this, Paul's
conviction and sentence were a lame conclusion.  At first he
pleaded guilty on all charges, despite the entreaties of his
counsel, but eventually he was galvanized into some show
of defence by the warning of the presiding judge that the
law allowed punishment with the cat-o'-nine-tails for
offences of this sort.  Even then things were very flat.  Potts
as chief witness for the prosecution was unshakable and was
later warmly commended by the court; no evidence, except
of previous good conduct, was offered by the defence;
Margot Beste-Chetwynde's name was not mentioned, though
the judge in passing sentence remarked that 'no one could
be ignorant of the callous insolence with which, on the very
eve of arrest for this most infamous of crimes, the accused
had been preparing to join his name with one honoured in
his country's history, and to drag down to his own pitiable
depths of depravity a lady of beauty, rank and stainless
reputation.  The just censure of society,' remarked the
judge, 'is accorded to those so inconstant and intemperate
that they must take their pleasures in the unholy market of
humanity that still sullies the fame of our civilization; but
for the traders themselves, these human vampires who prey
upon the degradation of their species, society had reserved
the right of ruthless suppression.'  So Paul was sent off to
prison, and the papers headed the column they reserve for
home events of minor importance with PRISON FOR EX-SOCIETY
BRIDEGROOM.  JUDGE ON HUMAN VAMPIRES,
and there, as far as the public were concerned, the matter
ended.
</p>

<p>
Before this happened, however, a conversation took place
which deserves the attention of all interested in the confused
series of events of which Paul had become a part.  One day,
while he was waiting for trial, he was visited in his cell by
Peter Beste-Chetwynde.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' he said.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo, Paul!' said Peter.  'Mamma asked me to come in
to see you.  She wants to know if you are getting the food all
right she's ordered for you.  I hope you like it, because I
chose most of it myself.  I thought you wouldn't want
anything very heavy.'
</p>

<p>
'It's splendid,' said Paul.  'How's Margot?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, that's rather what I've come to tell you, Paul.
Margot's gone away.'
</p>

<p>
'Where to?'
</p>

<p>
'She's gone off alone to Corfu.  I made her, though she
wanted to stay and see your trial.  You can imagine what a
time we've had with reporters and people.  You don't think
it awful of her, do you?  And listen, there's something else.
Can that policeman hear?  It's this.  You remember that
awful old man Maltravers.  Well, you've probably seen, he's
Home Secretary now.  He's been round to Mamma in the
most impossible Oppenheim kind of way, and said that if
she'd marry him he could get you out.  Of course he's
obviously been reading books.  But Mamma thinks it's
probably true, and she wants to know how you feel about it.
She rather feels the whole thing's her fault, really, and,
short of going to prison herself, she'll do anything to help.
You can't imagine Mamma in prison, can you?  Well, would
you rather get out now and her marry Maltravers, or wait
until you do get out and marry her yourself?  She was rather
definite about it.'
</p>

<p>
Paul thought of Professor Silenus's 'In ten years she will
be worn out', but he said:
</p>

<p>
'I'd rather she waited if you think she possibly can.'
</p>

<p>
'I thought you'd say that, Paul.  I'm so glad.  Mamma
said: "I won't say I don't know how I shall ever be able
to make up to him for all this, because I think he knows I
can."  Those were her words.  I don't suppose you'll get more
than a year or so, will you?'
</p>

<p>
'Good Lord, I hope not,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
His sentence of seven years' penal servitude was rather a
blow.  'In ten years she will be worn out,' he thought as he
drove in the prison van to Blackstone Gaol.
</p>

<p>
On his first day there Paul met quite a number of people,
some of whom he knew already.  The first person was a
warder with a low brow and distinctly menacing manner.
He wrote Paul's name in the 'Body Receipt Book' with some
difficulty and then conducted him to a cell.  He had evidently
been reading the papers.
</p>

<p>
'Rather different from the Ritz Hotel, eh?' he said.  'We
don't like your kind 'ere, see?  And we knows 'ow to treat
'em.  You won't find nothing like the Ritz 'ere, you dirty
White Slaver.'
</p>

<p>
But there he was wrong, because the next person Paul
met was Philbrick.  His prison clothes were ill-fitting, and
his chin was unshaven, but he still bore an indefinable air
of the grand manner.
</p>

<p>
'Thought I'd be seeing you soon,' he said.  'They've put
me on to reception bath cleaner, me being an old hand.
I've been saving the best suit I can find for you.  Not a louse
on it, hardly.'  He threw a little pile of clothes, stamped with
the broad arrow, on to the bench.
</p>

<p>
The warder returned with another, apparently his
superior officer.  Together they made a careful inventory of
all Paul's possessions.
</p>

<p>
'Shoes, brown, one pair; socks, fancy, one pair; suspenders,
black silk, one pair,' read out the warder in a sing-song
voice.  'Never saw a bloke with so much clothes.'
</p>

<p>
There were several checks due to difficulties of spelling,
and it was some time before the list was finished.
</p>

<p>
'Cigarette case, white metal, containing two cigarettes;
watch, white metal; tie-pin, fancy'—it had cost Margot
considerably more than the warder earned in a year, had he
only known—'studs, bone, one pair; cuff links, fancy, one
pair.'  The officers looked doubtfully at Paul's gold cigar
piercer, the gift of the best man.  'What's this 'ere?'
</p>

<p>
'It's for cigars,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Not so much lip!' said the warder, banging him on the
top of his head with the pair of shoes he happened to be
holding.  'Put it down as "instrument".  That's the lot,', he
said, 'unless you've got false teeth.  You're allowed to keep
them, only we must make a note of it.'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Truss or other surgical appliance?'
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'All right!  You can go to the bath.'
</p>

<p>
Paul sat for the regulation ten minutes in the regulation
nine inches of warm water—which smelt reassuringly of
disinfectant—and then put on his prison clothes.  The loss
of his personal possessions gave him a curiously agreeable
sense of irresponsibility.
</p>

<p>
'You look a treat,' said Philbrick.
</p>

<p>
Next he saw the Medical Officer, who sat at a table
covered with official forms.
</p>

<p>
'Name?' said the Doctor.
</p>

<p>
'Pennyfeather.'
</p>

<p>
'Have you at any time been detained in a mental home
or similar institution?  If so, give particulars.'
</p>

<p>
'I was at Scone College, Oxford, for two years,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
The Doctor looked up for the first time.  'Don't you dare
to make jokes here, my man,' he said, 'or I'll soon have you
in the straight-jacket in less than no time.'
</p>

<p>
'Sorry,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Don't speak to the Medical Officer unless to answer a
question,' said the warder at his elbow.
</p>

<p>
'Sorry,' said Paul unconsciously, and was banged on the
head.
</p>

<p>
'Suffering from consumption, or any contagious
disease?' asked the M.D.
</p>

<p>
'Not that I know of,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'That's all,' said the Doctor.  'I have certified you as
capable of undergoing the usual descriptions of punishment as
specified below, to wit, restraint of handcuffs, leg-chains,
cross-irons, body-belt, canvas dress, close confinement, No. 1
diet, No. 2 diet, birch-rod and cat-o'-nine-tails.  Any
complaints?'
</p>

<p>
'But must I have all these at once?' asked Paul, rather
dismayed.
</p>

<p>
'You will if you ask impertinent questions.  Look after
that man, officer, he's obviously a troublesome character.'
</p>

<p>
'Come 'ere, you,' said the warder.  They went up a passage
and down two flights of iron steps.  Long galleries with iron
railings stretched out in each direction, giving access to
innumerable doors.  Wire netting was stretched between the
landings.  'So don't you try no monkey-tricks.  Suicide isn't
allowed in this prison.  See?' said the warder.  'This is your
cell.  Keep it clean, or you'll know the reason why, and this is
your number.'  He buttoned a yellow badge on to Paul's coat.
</p>

<p>
'Like a flag-day,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Shut up, you — —,' remarked the warder, and locked
the door.
</p>

<p>
'I suppose I shall learn to respect these people in time,'
thought Paul.  'They all seem so much less awe-inspiring
than anyone I ever met.'
</p>

<p>
His next visit was from the Schoolmaster.  The door was
unlocked, and a seedy-looking young man in a tweed suit
came into the cell.
</p>

<p>
'Can you read and write, D.4.12?' asked the newcomer.
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Public or secondary education?'
</p>

<p>
'Public,' said Paul.  His school had been rather sensitive
on this subject.
</p>

<p>
'What was your standard when you left school?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I don't quite know.  I don't think we had
standards.'
</p>

<p>
The Schoolmaster marked him down as 'Memory defective'
on a form and went out.  Presently he returned with a book.
</p>

<p>
'You must do your best with that for the next four weeks,'
he said.  'I'll try and get you into one of the morning classes.
You won't find it difficult, if you can read fairly easily.  You
see, it begins there,' he said helpfully, showing Paul the first
page.
</p>

<p>
It was an English Grammar published in 1872.
</p>

<p>
'<i>A syllable is a single sound made by one simple effort of
the voice</i>,' Paul read.
</p>

<p>
'Thank you,' he said; 'I'm sure I shall find it useful.'
</p>

<p>
'You can change it after four weeks if you can't get on
with it,' said the Schoolmaster.  'But I should stick to it, if
you can.'
</p>

<p>
Again the door was locked.
</p>

<p>
Next came the Chaplain.  'Here is your Bible and a book of
devotion.  The Bible stays in the cell always.  You can change
the book of devotion any week if you wish to.  Are you
Church of England?  Services are voluntary—that is to say,
you must either attend all or none.'  The Chaplain spoke in
a nervous and hurried manner.  He was new to his job, and
he had already visited fifty prisoners that day, one of whom
had delayed him for a long time with descriptions of a vision
he had seen the night before.
</p>

<p>
'Hallo, Prendy!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
Mr Prendergast looked at him anxiously.  'I didn't
recognize you,' he said.  'People look so much alike in those
clothes.  This is most disturbing, Pennyfeather.  As soon as
I saw that you'd been convicted I was afraid they might send
you here.  Oh dear! oh dear!  It makes everything still more
difficult.'
</p>

<p>
'What's the matter, Prendy?  Doubts again?'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, discipline, my old trouble.  I've only been at the
job a week.  I was very lucky to get it.  My bishop said he
thought there was more opening for a Modern Churchman
in this kind of work than in the parishes.  The Governor is
very modern too.  But criminals are just as bad as boys, I
find.  They pretend to make confessions and tell me the
most dreadful things just to see what I'll say, and in chapel
they laugh so much that the warders spend all their time
correcting them.  It makes the services seem so irreverent.
Several of them got put on No. 1 diet this morning for
singing the wrong words to one of the hymns, and of course that
only makes me more unpopular.  Please, Pennyfeather, if
you don't mind, you mustn't call me Prendy, and if anyone
passes the cell will you stand up when you're talking to me.
You're supposed to, you see, and the Chief Warder has said
some very severe things to me about maintaining discipline.'
</p>

<p>
At this moment the face of the warder appeared at the
peep-hole in the door.
</p>

<p>
'I trust you realize the enormity of your offence and the
justice of your punishment?' said Mr Prendergast in a loud
voice.  'Pray for penitence.'
</p>

<p>
A warder came into the cell.
</p>

<p>
'Sorry to disturb you, sir, but I've got to take this one to
see the Governor.  There's D.4.18 down the way been asking
for you for days.  I said I'd tell you, only, if you'll forgive my
saying so, I shouldn't be too soft with 'im, sir.  We know 'im
of old.  'E's a sly old devil, begging your pardon, sir, and 'e's
only religious when 'e thinks it'll pay.'
</p>

<p>
'I think that I am the person to decide that, officer,' said
Mr Prendergast with some dignity.  'You may take D.4.12
to the Governor.'
</p>

<p>
Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery had not been intended by
nature or education for the Governor of a prison; his
appointment was the idea of a Labour Home Secretary who
had been impressed by an appendix on the theory of penology
which he had contributed to a report on the treatment of
'Conscientious Objectors'.  Up to that time Sir Wilfred had
held the Chair of Sociology at a Midland university; only his
intimate friends and a few specially favoured pupils knew
that behind his mild and professional exterior he concealed
an ardent ambition to serve in the public life of his generation.
He stood twice for Parliament, but so diffidently that
his candidature passed almost unnoticed.  Colonel MacAdder,
his predecessor in office, a veteran of numberless
unrecorded campaigns on the Afghan frontier, had said to him
on his retirement: 'Good luck, Sir Wilfred!  If I may give
you a piece of advice, it's this.  Don't bother about the lower
warders or the prisoners.  Give hell to the man immediately
below you, and you can rely on him to pass it on with
interest.  If you make prison bad enough, people'll take jolly
good care to keep out of it.  That's been my policy all
through, and I'm proud of it' (a policy which soon became
quite famous in the society of Cheltenham Spa).
</p>

<p>
Sir Wilfred, however, had his own ideas.  'You must
understand,' he said to Paul, 'that it is my aim to establish
personal contact with each of the men under my care.  I
want you to take a pride in your prison and in your work
here.  So far as possible, I like the prisoners to carry on with
their avocations in civilized life.  What was this man's
profession, officer?'
</p>

<p>
'White Slave traffic, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Ah, yes.  Well, I'm afraid you won't have much
opportunity for that here.  What else have you done?'
</p>

<p>
'I was nearly a clergyman once,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Indeed?  Well, I hope in time, if I find enough men with
the same intention, to get together a theological class.
You've no doubt met the Chaplain, a very broad-minded
man.  Still, for the present we are only at the beginning.
The Government regulations are rather uncompromising.
For the first four weeks you will have to observe the solitary
confinement ordained by law.  After that we will find you
something more creative.  We don't want you to feel that
your personality is being stamped out.  Have you any
experience of art leather work?'
</p>

<p>
'No, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I might put you into the Arts and Crafts Workshop.
I came to the conclusion many years ago that almost
all crime is due to the repressed desire for aesthetic
expression.  At last we have the opportunity for testing it.  Are
you an extravert or an introvert?'
</p>

<p>
'I'm afraid I'm not sure, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'So few people are.  I'm trying to induce the Home Office
to instal an official psycho-analyst.  Do you read the <i>New
Nation</i>, I wonder?  There is rather a flattering article this
week about our prison called <i>The Lucas-Dockery Experiments</i>.
I like the prisoners to know these things.  It gives
them corporate pride.  I may give you one small example of
the work we are doing that affects your own case.  Up till
now all offences connected with prostitution have been put
into the sexual category.  Now I hold that an offence of your
kind is essentially acquisitive and shall grade it accordingly.
It does not, of course, make any difference as far as your
conditions of imprisonment are concerned—the routine of
penal servitude is prescribed by Standing Orders—but you
see what a difference it makes to the annual statistics.'
</p>

<p>
'The human touch,' said Sir Wilfred after Paul had been
led from the room, 'I'm sure it makes all the difference.
You could see with that unfortunate man just now what a
difference it made to him to think that, far from being a
mere nameless slave, he has now become part of a great
revolution in statistics.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, sir,' said the Chief Warder; 'and, by the way, there
are two more attempted suicides being brought up tomorrow.
You must really be more strict with them, sir.
Those sharp tools you've issued to the Arts and Crafts
School is just putting temptation in the men's way.'
</p>

<p>
Paul was once more locked in, and for the first time had
the opportunity of examining his cell.  There was little to
interest him.  Besides his Bible, his book of devotion—<i>Prayers
on Various Occasions of Illness, Uncertainty and
Loss, by the Rev. Septimus Bead, M.A., Edinburgh, 1863</i>—and
his English Grammar, there was a little glazed pint
pot, a knife and spoon, a slate and slate-pencil, a salt-jar, a
metal water-can, two earthenware vessels, some cleaning
materials, a plank bed upright against the wall, a roll of
bedding, a stool and a table.  A printed notice informed him
that he was not permitted to look out of the window.  Three
printed cards on the wall contained a list of other punishable
offences, which seemed to include every human activity,
some Church of England prayers, and an explanation of the
'system of progressive stages'.  There was also a typewritten
'Thought for the Day', one of Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery's
little innovations.  The message for the first day of Paul's
imprisonment was: 'SENSE OF SIN is SENSE OF WASTE,' the
Editor of the "Sunday Express".'  Paul studied the system of
progressive stages with interest.  After four weeks, he read,
he would be allowed to join in associated labour, to take half
an hour's exercise on Sundays, to wear a stripe on his arm,
if illiterate to have school instruction, to take one work of
fiction from the library weekly, and, if special application
were made to the Governor, to exhibit four photographs of
his relatives or of approved friends; after eight weeks,
provided that his conduct was perfectly satisfactory, he might
receive a visit of twenty minutes' duration and write and
receive a letter.  Six weeks later he might receive another
visit and another letter and another library book weekly.
</p>

<p>
Would Davy Lennox's picture of the back of Margot's
head be accepted as the photograph of an approved friend,
he wondered?
</p>

<p>
After a time his door was unlocked again and opened a
few inches.  A hand thrust in a tin, and a voice said: 'Pint
pot quick!'  Paul's mug was filled with cocoa, and the door
was again locked.  The tin contained bread, bacon and beans.
That was the last interruption for fourteen hours.  Paul fell
into a reverie.  It was the first time he had been really alone
for months.  How very refreshing it was, he reflected.
</p>

<p>
The next four weeks of solitary confinement were among
the happiest of Paul's life.  The physical comforts were
certainly meagre, but at the Ritz Paul had learned to
appreciate the inadequacy of purely physical comfort.  It was
so exhilarating, he found, never to have to make any
decision on any subject, to be wholly relieved from the
smallest consideration of time, meals or clothes, to have no
anxiety ever about what kind of impression he was making;
in fact, to be free.  At some rather chilly time in the early
morning a bell would ring, and the warder would say:
'Slops outside!,' he would rise, roll up his bedding, and
dress; there was no need to shave, no hesitation about what
tie he should wear, none of the fidgeting with studs and
collars and links that so distracts the waking moments of
civilized man.  He felt like the happy people in the
advertisements for shaving soap who seem to have achieved very
simply that peace of mind so distant and so desirable in the
early morning.  For about an hour he stitched away at a
mailbag, until his door was again unlocked to admit a hand with
a lump of bread and a large ladle of porridge.  After breakfast
he gave a cursory polish to the furniture and crockery of
his cell and did some more sewing until the bell rang for
chapel.  For a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes he
heard Mr Prendergast blaspheming against the beauties of
sixteenth-century diction.  This was certainly a bore, and so
was the next hour during which he had to march round the
prison square, where between concentric paths of worn
asphalt a few melancholy cabbages showed their heads.
Some of the men during this period used to fall out under
the pretence of tying a shoe-lace and take furtive bites at
the leaves of the vegetables.  If observed they were severely
punished.  Paul never felt any temptation to do this.  After
that the day was unbroken save for luncheon, supper and
the Governor's inspection.  The heap of sacking which every
day he was to turn into mail-bags was supposed by law to
keep him busy for nine hours.  The prisoners in the cells on
either side of him, who were not quite in their right minds,
the warder told Paul, found some difficulty in finishing their
task before lights out.  Paul found that with the least
exertion he had finished long before supper, and spent the
evenings in meditation and in writing up on his slate the
thoughts which had occurred to him during the day.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER II
<br/>
<i>The Lucas-Dockery Experiments</i>
</h3>

<p>
Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery, as has already been suggested,
combined ambition, scholarship and genuine optimism in a
degree rarely found in his office.  He looked forward to a
time when the Lucas-Dockery experiments should be
recognized as the beginning of a new epoch in penology, and he
rehearsed in his mind sentences from the social histories of
the future which would contain such verdicts as '<i>One of the
few important events of this Labour Government's brief
tenure of power was the appointment as Governor of Blackstone
Gaol of Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery.  The administration
of this intrepid and far-seeing official is justly regarded as
the foundation of the present system of criminal treatment.
In fact, it may safely be said that no single man occupies so
high a place in the history of the social reform of his century,
etc.</i>'  His eminent qualities, however, did not keep him from
many severe differences of opinion with the Chief Warder.
He was sitting in his study one day working at a memorandum
for the Prison Commissioners—one of the neglected
series of memoranda whose publication after his retirement
indicated Sir Wilfred's claim to be the pioneer of artificial
sunlight in prisons—when the Chief Warder interrupted
him.
</p>

<p>
'A bad report from the Bookbinding Shop, sir.  The
instructor says that a practice is growing among the men of
eating the paste issued to them for their work.  They say it
is preferable to their porridge.  We shall either have to put
on another warder to supervise the bookbinding or introduce
something into the paste which will make it unpalatable.'
</p>

<p>
'Has the paste any nutritive value?' asked Sir Wilfred.
</p>

<p>
'I couldn't say, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Weigh the men in the Bookbinding Shop, and then
report to me any increase in weight.  How many times must
I ask you to ascertain <i>all</i> the facts before reporting on any
case?'
</p>

<p>
'Very good, sir!  And there's a petition from D.4.12.  He's
finished his four months' solitary, and he wants to know
if he can keep at it for another four.'
</p>

<p>
'I disapprove of cellular labour.  It makes a man introvert.
Who is D.4.12?'
</p>

<p>
'Long sentence, sir, waiting transference to Egdon.'
</p>

<p>
'I'll see D.4.12 myself.'
</p>

<p>
'Very good, sir!'
</p>

<p>
Paul was led in.
</p>

<p>
'I understand you wish to continue cellular labour instead
of availing yourself of the privilege of working in association.
Why is that?'
</p>

<p>
'I find it so much more interesting, sir,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'It's a most irregular suggestion,' said the Chief Warder.
'Privileges can only be forfeited by a breach of the
regulations witnessed and attested by two officers.  Standing
Orders are most emphatic on the subject.'
</p>

<p>
'I wonder whether you have narcissistic tendencies?' said
the Governor.  'The Home Office has not as yet come to any
decision about my application for a staff psycho-analyst.'
</p>

<p>
'Put him in the observation cell,' said the Chief Warder.
'That brings out any insanity.  I've known several cases of
men you could hardly have told were mad—just eccentric,
you know—who've been put on observation, and after a few
days they've been raving lunatics.  Colonel MacAdder was
a great believer in the observation cells.'
</p>

<p>
'Did you lead a very lonely life before conviction?  Perhaps
you were a shepherd or a lighthouse-keeper, or something
of the kind?'
</p>

<p>
'No, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Most curious.  Well, I will consider your case and give you
my answer later.'
</p>

<p>
Paul was led back to his cell, and next day was again
summoned before the Governor.
</p>

<p>
'I have considered your application,' said Sir Wilfred,
'with the most minute care.  In fact, I have decided to
include it in my forthcoming work on the criminal mind.
Perhaps you would like to hear what I have written about
you?'
</p>

<p class="t3">
'<i>Case R.</i>', he read:
</p>

<p>
<i>A young man of respectable family and some education.
No previous criminal record.  Committed to seven years'
penal servitude for traffic in prostitution.  Upon completing
his first four months R. petitioned for extension of cellular
labour.  Treatment as prescribed by Standing Orders: either</i>
(a) <i>detention in observation cell for the Medical Officer to
satisfy himself about the state of prisoner's mind or</i> (b)
<i>compulsory work in association with other prisoners unless
privilege forfeited by misdemeanour.</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>Treatment by Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery—I decided
that R. was suffering from misanthropic tendencies induced by
a sense of his own inferiority in the presence of others.  R.'s
crime was the result of an attempt to assert individuality at
the expense of community.  </i>(Cp.<i> Cases D, G and I.</i>)<i>  Accordingly
I attempted to break down his social inhibitions by a
series of progressive steps.  In the first stage he exercised
daily for half an hour in the company of one other prisoner.
Conversation was allowed during this period upon approved
topics, history, philosophy, public events, etc., the prisoners
being chosen among those whose crimes would tend as little as
possible to aggravate and encourage R.'s.</i>
</p>

<p>
'I have not yet thought of the other stages of your
treatment,' said Sir Wilfred, 'but you can see that individual
attention is being paid to your reclamation.  It may cause
you some gratification to realize that, thanks to my report,
you may in time become a case of scientific interest throughout
the world.  Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery's treatment of
Case R. may haply become a precedent for generations yet
unborn.  That is something to lift you above the
soul-destroying monotony of routine, is it not?'
</p>

<p>
Paul was led away.
</p>

<p>
'The men in the kitchen have lodged a complaint that
they cannot work with C.2.9,' said the Chief Warder.  'They
say he has an infectious skin disease all over his hands.'
</p>

<p>
'I can't be worried with things like that,' said the
Governor irritably.  'I am trying to decide upon Case
R.'s—I mean D.4.12's—third stage of reclamation.'
</p>

<p>
Case R. of the Lucas-Dockery experiments began on the
new régime that afternoon.
</p>

<p>
'Come out,' said the warder, unlocking his cell, 'and
bring your 'at.'
</p>

<p>
The parade ground, empty of its revolving squads, looked
particularly desolate.
</p>

<p>
'Stand there and don't move till I come back,' said the
warder.
</p>

<p>
Presently he returned with a little bony figure in prison
dress.
</p>

<p>
'This 'ere's your pal,' he said; 'this 'ere's the path you've
got to walk on.  Neither of you is to touch the other or any
part of 'is clothing.  Nothing is to be passed from one to the
other.  You are to keep at a distance of one yard and talk
of 'istory, philosophy or kindred subjects.  When I rings the
bell you stops talking, see?  Your pace is to be neither quicker
nor slower than average walking-pace.  Them's the Governor's
instructions, and Gawd 'elp yer if yer does anything
wrong.  Now walk.'
</p>

<p>
'This is a silly dodge,' said the little man.  'I've been in
six prisons, and I never seen nothing to touch it.  Most
irregular.  You doesn't know where you are these days.
This blinking prison is going to the dogs.  Look at the
Chaplain.  Wears a wig!'
</p>

<p>
'Are you here for long?' asked Paul politely.
</p>

<p>
'Not this time.  They couldn't get a proper charge against
me.  "Six months for loitering with intent."  They'd been
watching me for weeks, but I wasn't going to let them have
a chance this time.  Now six months is a very decent little
sentence, if you take my meaning.  One picks up with old
friends, and you like it all the more when you comes out.
I never minds six months.  What's more, I'm known here,
so I always gets made "landing-cleaner".  I expect you've
seen my hand often enough coming round with the grub.
The warders know me, see, so they always keeps the job
open for me if they hears I'm coming back.  If you're nice
to 'em the first two or three times you're 'ere, they'll
probably do the same for you.'
</p>

<p>
'Is it a very good job?'
</p>

<p>
'Well, not as jobs go, but it's a nice start.  The best job of
all is Reception-cleaner.  One doesn't get that for years,
unless you've special recommendations.  You see, you has
all the people coming in fresh from outside, and you hears
all the news and gets tobacco sometimes and racing tips.
Did you see the cleaner when you came in?  Know who he is?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul, 'as a matter of fact, I do.  He's called
Philbrick.'
</p>

<p>
'No, no, old man, you've got the wrong chap.  I mean a
big stout man.  Talks a lot about hotels and restaurants.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, that's the man I mean.'
</p>

<p>
'Why, don't you know who that is?  That's the Governor's
brother: Sir Solomon Lucas-Dockery.  Told me so hisself.
'Ere for arson.  Burnt a castle in Wales.  You can see he's a
toff.'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER III
<br/>
<i>The Death of a Modern Churchman</i>
</h3>

<p>
Some days later Paul entered on another phase of his
reclamation.  When he came into the prison-square for his
afternoon exercise he found that his companion's place had
been taken by a burly man of formidable aspect.  He had
red hair and beard, and red-rimmed eyes, and vast red
hands which twirled convulsively at his sides.  He turned his
ox-like eyes on Paul and gave him a slight snarl of welcome.
</p>

<p>
'Your new pal,' said the warder.  'Get on with it.'
</p>

<p>
'How do you do?' said Paul politely.  'Are you here for
long?'
</p>

<p>
'Life,' said the other.  'But it doesn't matter much.  I look
daily for the Second Coming.'
</p>

<p>
They marched on in silence.
</p>

<p>
'Do you think that this is a good plan of the Governor's?'
asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said his companion.  They walked on in silence,
once round, twice round, three times round.
</p>

<p>
'Talk, you two,' shouted the warder.  'That's your
instructions.  Talk.'
</p>

<p>
'It makes a change,' said the big man.
</p>

<p>
'What are you here for?' asked Paul.  'You don't mind my
asking, do you?'
</p>

<p>
'It's all the Bible,' said the big man.  'You should read
about it there.  Figuratively, you know,' he added.  'It
wouldn't be plain to you, I don't suppose, not like it is to
me.
</p>

<p>
'It's not an easy book to understand, is it?'
</p>

<p>
'It's not understanding that's needed.  It's visions.  Do you
ever have visions?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I'm afraid I don't.'
</p>

<p>
'Nor does the Chaplain.  He's no Christian.  It was a vision
brought me here, an angel clothed in flame, with a crown
of flame on his head, crying "Kill and spare not.  The Kingdom
is at hand."  Would you like to hear about it?  I'll tell
you.  I'm a carpenter by profession, or at least I was, you
understand.'  He spoke a curious blend of cockney and
Biblical English.  'Not a joiner—a cabinet-maker.  Well, one
day I was just sweeping out the shop before shutting up
when the angel of the Lord came in.  I didn't know who it
was at first.  "Just in time," I said.  "What can I do for
you?"  Then I noticed that all about him there was a red flame and
a circle of flame over his head, same as I've been telling you.
Then he told me how the Lord had numbered His elect and
the day of tribulation was at hand.  "Kill and spare not," he
says.  I'd not been sleeping well for some time before this.
I'd been worrying about my soul and whether I was saved.
Well, all that night I thought of what the angel had told
me.  I didn't see his meaning, not at first, same as you
wouldn't.  Then it all came to me in a flash.  Unworthy that
I am, I am the Lord's appointed,' said the carpenter.  'I am
the sword of Israel, I am the lion of the Lord's elect.'
</p>

<p>
'And did you kill anybody?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Unworthy that I am, I smote the Philistine; in the name
of the Lord of hosts, I struck off his head.  It was for a sign in
Israel.  And now I am gone into captivity, and the mirth is
turned into weeping, but the Lord shall deliver me in His
appointed time.  Woe unto the Philistine in that day! woe
unto the uncircumcised!  It were better that a stone were
hanged about his neck and he were cast into the depths of
the sea.'
</p>

<p>
The warder rang his bell.  'Inside, you two!' he shouted.
</p>

<p>
'Any complaint?' asked the Governor on his rounds.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, sir,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
The Governor looked at him intently.  'Are you the man
I put under special treatment?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'Then it's ridiculous to complain.  What is it?'
</p>

<p>
'I have reason to believe that the man I have to take
exercise with is a dangerous lunatic.'
</p>

<p>
'Complaints by one prisoner about another can only be
considered when substantiated by the evidence of a warder
or of two other prisoners,' said the Chief Warder.
</p>

<p>
'Quite right,' said the Governor.  'I never heard a more
ridiculous complaint.  All crime is a form of insanity.  I
myself chose the prisoner with whom you exercise.  I chose
him for his peculiar suitability.  Let me hear no more on this
subject, please.'
</p>

<p>
That afternoon Paul spent another disquieting half hour
on the square.
</p>

<p>
'I've had another vision,' said the mystical homicide.  'But
I don't yet know quite what it portends.  No doubt I shall
be told.'
</p>

<p>
'Was it a very beautiful vision?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No words can describe the splendour of it.  It was all
crimson and wet like blood.  I saw the whole prison as if it
were carved of ruby, hard and glittering, and the warders
and the prisoners creeping in and out like little red
ladybirds.  And then as I watched all the ruby became soft and
wet, like a great sponge soaked in wine, and it was dripping
and melting into a great lake of scarlet.  Then I woke up.
I don't know the meaning of it yet, but I feel that the hand
of the Lord is hanging over this prison.  D'you ever feel
like that, as though it were built in the jaws of a beast?  I
sometimes dream of a great red tunnel like the throat of a
beast and men running down it, sometimes one by one and
sometimes in great crowds, running down the throat of the
beast, and the breath of the beast is like the blast of a
furnace.  D'you ever feel like that?'
</p>

<p>
'I'm afraid not,' said Paul.  'Have they given you an
interesting library book?'
</p>

<p>
'<i>Lady Almina's Secret</i>,' said the lion of the Lord's elect.
'Pretty soft stuff, old-fashioned too.  But I keep reading the
Bible.  There's a lot of killing in that.'
</p>

<p>
'Dear me, you seem to think about killing a great deal.'
</p>

<p>
'I do.  It's my mission, you see,' said the big man simply.
</p>

<p>
Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery felt very much like Solomon at
ten o'clock every morning of the week except Sunday.  It was
then that he sat in judgment upon the cases of misconduct
among the prisoners that were brought to his notice.  From
this chair Colonel MacAdder had delivered sentence in
undeviating accordance with the spirit and the letter of the
Standing Orders Concerning the Government of His
Majesty's Prisons, dispensing automatic justice like a slot
machine: in went the offence; out came the punishment.
Not so Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery.  Never, he felt, was his
mind more alert or resourceful or his vast accumulation of
knowledge more available than at his little court of
summary justice.  'No one knows what to expect,' complained
warders and prisoners alike.
</p>

<p>
'Justice,' said Sir Wilfred, 'is the capacity for regarding
each case as an entirely new problem.'  After a few months
of his administration, Sir Wilfred was able to point with
some pride to a marked diminution in the number of cases
brought before him.
</p>

<p>
One morning, soon after Paul began on his special régime
of reclamation, his companion was called up before the
Governor.
</p>

<p>
'God bless my soul!' said Sir Wilfred, 'that's the man I
put on special treatment.  What is he here for?'
</p>

<p>
'I was on night duty last night between the hours of
8 p.m. and 4 a.m.,' testified the warder in a sing-song voice,
'when my attention was attracted by sounds of agitation
coming from the prisoner's cell.  Upon going to the
observation hole I observed the prisoner pacing up and down his
cell in a state of high excitement.  In one hand he held his
Bible, and in the other a piece of wood which he had broken
from his stool.  His eyes were staring; he was breathing
heavily, and at times muttering verses of the Bible.  I
remonstrated with the prisoner when he addressed me in
terms prejudicial to good discipline.'
</p>

<p>
'What are the words complained of?' asked the Chief
Warder.
</p>

<p>
'He called me a Moabite, an abomination of Moab, a wash-pot,
an unclean thing, an uncircumcised Moabite, an
idolater, and a whore of Babylon, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'I see.  What do you advise, officer?'
</p>

<p>
'A clear case of insubordination, sir,' said the Chief
Warder.  'Try him on No. 1 diet for a bit.'
</p>

<p>
But when he asked the Chief Warder's opinion, Sir
Wilfred was not really seeking advice.  He liked to emphasize
in his own mind, and perhaps that of the prisoners, the
difference between the official view and his own.
</p>

<p>
'What would you say was the most <i>significant</i> part of the
evidence?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
The Chief Warder considered.  'I think whore of Babylon,
on the whole, sir.'
</p>

<p>
Sir Wilfred smiled as a conjurer may who has forced the
right card.
</p>

<p>
'Now I,' he said, 'am of a different opinion.  It may
surprise you, but I should say that the significant thing about
this case was the fact that the prisoner held a piece of the
stool.'
</p>

<p>
'Destruction of prison property,' said the Chief Warder.
'Yes, that's pretty bad.'
</p>

<p>
'Now what was your profession before conviction?' asked
the Governor, turning to the prisoner.
</p>

<p>
'Carpenter, sir.'
</p>

<p>
'<i>I knew it</i>,' said the Governor triumphantly.  'We have
another case of the frustrated creative urge.  Now listen, my
man.  It is very wrong of you to insult the officer, who is
clearly none of the things you mentioned.  He symbolizes the
just disapproval of society and is, like all the prison staff,
a member of the Church of England.  But I understand your
difficulty.  You have been used to creative craftsmanship,
have you not, and you find prison life deprives you of the
means of self-expression, and your energies find vent in
these foolish outbursts?  I will see to it that a bench and a
set of carpenter's tools are provided for you.  The first thing
you shall do is to mend the piece of furniture you so wantonly
destroyed.  After that we will find other work for you
in your old trade.  You may go.  Get to the cause of the
trouble,' Sir Wilfred added when the prisoner was led away;
'your Standing Orders may repress the symptoms, they do
not probe to the underlying cause.'
</p>

<p>
Two days later the prison was in a state of intense excitement.
Something had happened.  Paul woke as the bell rang
at the usual time, but it was nearly half an hour before the
doors were unlocked.  He heard the warder's 'Slops outside!'
getting nearer and nearer, interjected with an occasional
'Don't ask questions', 'Mind your own business', or a
sinister 'You'll know soon enough', in reply to the prisoner's
questions.  They, too, had sensed something unusual.  Perhaps
it was an outbreak of some disease—spotted fever, Paul
thought, or a national disaster in the world outside—a war
or revolution.  In their enforced silence the nerves of all the
men were tightened to an acuteness of perception.  Paul read
wholesale massacres in the warder's face.
</p>

<p>
'Anything wrong?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
'I should bleeding well say there was,' said the warder,
'and the next man as asks me a question is going to cop it
hot.'
</p>

<p>
Paul began scrubbing out his cell.  Dissatisfied curiosity
contended in his thoughts with irritation at this interruption
of routine.  Two warders passed his door talking.
</p>

<p>
'I don't say I'm not sorry for the poor bird.  All I says is,
it was time the Governor had a lesson.'
</p>

<p>
'It might have been one of us,' said the other warder in
a hushed voice.
</p>

<p>
Breakfast arrived.  As the hand appeared at his door Paul
whispered: 'What's happened?'
</p>

<p>
'Why, ain't you 'eard?  There's been a murder, shocking
bloodthirsty.'
</p>

<p>
'Get on there,' roared the warder in charge of the landing.
</p>

<p>
So the Governor had been murdered, thought Paul; he
had been a mischievous old bore.  Still, it was very disturbing,
for the news of a murder which was barely noticed in
the gay world of trams and tubes and boxing-matches caused
an electric terror in this community of silent men.  The
interval between breakfast and chapel seemed interminable.
At last the bell went.  The doors were opened again.  They
marched in silence to the chapel.  As it happened, Philbrick
was in the next seat to Paul.  The warders sat on raised seats,
watchful for any attempt at conversation.  The hymn was
the recognized time for the exchange of gossip.  Paul waited
for it impatiently.  Clearly it was not the Governor who had
been murdered.  He stood on the chancel steps, Prayer-book
in hand.  Mr Prendergast was nowhere to be seen.  The
Governor conducted the service.  The Medical Officer read
the lessons, stumbling heavily over the longer words.  Where
was Mr Prendergast?
</p>

<p>
At last the hymn was announced.  The organ struck up,
played with great feeling by a prisoner who until his
conviction had been assistant organist at a Welsh cathedral.
All over the chapel the men filled their chests for a burst of
conversation.
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>O God, our help in ages past,</i>' sang Paul.<br/>
  '<i>Where's Prendergast today?</i>'<br/>
  '<i>What, ain't you 'eard? 'e's been done in.</i>'<br/>
  '<i>And our eternal home.</i>'<br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>Old Prendy went to see a chap<br/>
  What said he'd seen a ghost;<br/>
  Well, he was dippy, and he'd got<br/>
  A mallet and a saw.</i>'<br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>Who let the madman have the things?</i>'<br/>
  '<i>The Governor, who d'you think?<br/>
  He asked to be a carpenter,<br/>
  He sawed off Prendy's head.</i><br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>A pal of mine what lives next door,<br/>
  'E 'eard it 'appening;<br/>
  The warder must 'ave 'eard it too,<br/>
  'E didn't interfere.</i>'<br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>Time, like an ever-rolling stream,<br/>
  Bears all its sons away.'<br/>
  'Poor Prendy 'ollered fit to kill<br/>
  For nearly 'alf an hour.</i><br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>Damned lucky it was Prendergast,<br/>
  Might 'ave been you or me!<br/>
  The warder says—and I agree—<br/>
  It serves the Governor right.</i>'<br/>
</p>

<p class="poem">
  '<i>Amen.</i>'<br/>
</p>

<p>
From all points of view it was lucky that the madman
had chosen Mr Prendergast for attack.  Some people even
suggested that the choice had been made in a more responsible
quarter.  The death of a prisoner or warder would have
called for a Home Office inquiry which might seriously have
discouraged the Lucas-Dockery reforms, and also reflected
some discredit upon the administration of the Chief Warder.
Mr. Prendergast's death passed almost unnoticed.  His
assassin was removed to Broadmoor, and the life of the
prison went on smoothly.  It was observed, however, that the
Chief Warder seemed to have more influence with his
superior than he had had before.  Sir Wilfred concentrated
his attention upon the statistics, and the life of the prison
was equitably conducted under the Standing Orders.  It was
quite like it had been in old MacAdder's day, the warders
observed.  But Paul did not reap the benefits of this happy
reversion to tradition, because some few days later he was
removed with a band of others to the Convict Settlement at
Egdon Heath.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER IV
<br/>
<i>Nor Iron Bars a Cage</i>
</h3>

<p>
The granite walls of Egdon Heath Penal Settlement are
visible, when there is no mist, from the main road, and it is
not uncommon for cars to stop there a few moments while
the occupants stand up and stare happily about them.  They
are looking for convicts, and as often as not they are
rewarded by seeing move across the heath before them a black
group of men chained together and uniformly dressed, with
a mounted and armed warder riding at their side.  They give
an appearance of industry which on investigation is quite
illusionary, for so much of the day at Egdon is taken up with
marching to and from the quarries, in issuing and counting
tools, in guarding and chaining and releasing the workmen,
that there is very little work done.  But there is usually
something to be seen from the road, enough, anyway, to be
imagined from the very aspect of the building to send the
trippers off to their teas with their consciences agreeably
unquiet at the memory of small dishonesties in railway trains,
inaccurate income-tax returns, and the hundred and one
minor infractions of law that are inevitable in civilized life.
</p>

<p>
Paul arrived from Blackstone late one afternoon in early
autumn with two warders and six other long-sentence
prisoners.  The journey had been spent in an ordinary
third-class railway carriage, where the two warders smoked black
tobacco in cheap little wooden pipes and were inclined
towards conversation.
</p>

<p>
'You'll find a lot of improvements since you were here
last,' said one of them.  'There's two coloured-glass windows
in the chapel, presented by the last Governor's widow.
Lovely they are, St Peter and St Paul in prison being
released by an angel.  Some of the Low Church prisoners don't
like them, though.
</p>

<p>
'We had a lecture last week, too, but it wasn't very
popular—"The Work of the League of Nations", given by a young
chap of the name of Potts.  Still, it makes a change.  I hear
you've been having a lot of changes at Blackstone.'
</p>

<p>
'I should just about think we have,' said one of the convicts,
and proceeded to give a somewhat exaggerated account
of the death of Mr Prendergast.
</p>

<p>
Presently one of the warders, observing that Paul seemed
shy of joining in the conversation, handed him a daily
paper.  'Like to look at this, sonny?' he said.  'It's the last
you'll see for some time.'
</p>

<p>
There was very little in it to interest Paul, whose only
information from the outside world during the last six
weeks had come from Sir Wilfred Lucas-Dockery's weekly
bulletins (for one of the first discoveries of his captivity was
that interest in 'news' does not spring from genuine curiosity,
but from the desire for completeness.  During his long
years of freedom he had scarcely allowed a day to pass
without reading fairly fully from at least two newspapers,
always pressing on with a series of events which never came
to an end.  Once the series was broken, he had little desire to
resume it), but he was deeply moved to discover on one of
the middle pages an obscure but recognizable photograph of
Margot and Peter.  'The Honourable Mrs Beste-Chetwynde',
it said below, 'and her son Peter, who succeeds his uncle as
Earl of Pastmaster.'  In the next column was an announcement
of the death of Lord Pastmaster and a brief survey of
his uneventful life.  At the end it said, 'It is understood that
Mrs Beste-Chetwynde and the young Earl, who have been
spending the last few months at their villa in Corfu, will
return to England in a few days.  Mrs Beste-Chetwynde has
for many years been a prominent hostess in the fashionable
world and is regarded as one of the most beautiful women in
Society.  Her son's succession to the earldom recalls the
sensation caused in May of this year by the announcement
of her engagement to Mr Paul Pennyfeather and the
dramatic arrest of the bridegroom at a leading West End
hotel a few hours before the wedding ceremony.  The new
Lord Pastmaster is sixteen years old, and has up till now
been educated privately.'
</p>

<p>
Paul sat back in the carriage for a long time looking at
the photograph, while his companions played several hands
of poker in reckless disregard of Standing Orders.  In his six
weeks of solitude and grave consideration he had failed to
make up his mind about Margot Beste-Chetwynde; it was
torn and distracted by two conflicting methods of thought.
On one side was the dead weight of precept, inherited from
generations of schoolmasters and divines.  According to these,
the problem was difficult but not insoluble.  He had 'done the
right thing' in shielding the woman: so much was clear,
but Margot had not quite filled the place assigned to her, for
in this case she was grossly culpable, and he was shielding
her, not from misfortune nor injustice, but from the
consequence of her crimes; he felt a flush about his knees as
Boy Scout honour whispered that Margot had got him into
a row and ought jolly well to own up and face the music.  As
he sat over his post-bags he had wrestled with this argument
without achieving any satisfactory result except a growing
conviction that there was something radically inapplicable
about this whole code of ready-made honour that is the still
small voice, trained to command, of the Englishman all the
world over.  On the other hand was the undeniable cogency
of Peter Beste-Chetwynde's 'You can't see Mamma in
prison, can you?'  The more Paul considered this, the more
he perceived it to be the statement of a natural law.  He
appreciated the assumption of comprehension with which
Peter had delivered it.  As he studied Margot's photograph,
dubiously transmitted as it was, he was strengthened in his
belief that there was, in fact, and should be, one law for her
and another for himself, and that the raw little exertions of
nineteenth-century Radicals were essentially base and trivial
and misdirected.  It was not simply that Margot had been
very rich or that he had been in love with her.  It was just
that he saw the <i>impossibility</i> of Margot in prison, the bare
connection of vocables associating the ideas was obscene.
Margot dressed in prison uniform, hustled down corridors
by wardresses—all like the younger Miss Fagan—visited by
philanthropic old ladies with devotional pamphlets, set to
work in the laundry washing the other prisoners' clothes—these
things were <i>impossible</i>, and if the preposterous processes
of law had condemned her, then the woman that they
actually caught and pinned down would not have been
Margot, but some quite other person of the same name and
somewhat similar appearance.  It was impossible to imprison
the Margot who had committed the crime.  If someone had
to suffer that the public might be discouraged from
providing poor Mrs Grimes with the only employment for which
civilization had prepared her, then it had better be Paul
than that other woman with Margot's name, for anyone
who has been to an English public-school will always feel
comparatively at home in prison.  It is the people brought
up in the gay intimacy of the slums, Paul learned, who find
prison so soul-destroying.
</p>

<p>
How lovely Margot was, Paul reflected, even in this
absurd photograph, this grey-and-black smudge of ink!
Even the most hardened criminal there—he was serving
his third sentence for blackmail—laid down his cards for a
moment and remarked upon how the whole carriage seemed
to be flooded with the delectable savour of the Champs-Elysées
in early June.  'Funny,' he said.  'I thought I smelt
scent.' And that set them off talking about women.
</p>

<p>
Paul found another old friend at Egdon Heath Prison: a
short, thick-set, cheerful figure who stumped along in front
of him on the way to chapel, making a good deal of noise
with an artificial leg.  'Here we are again, old boy!' he
remarked during one of the responses.  'I'm in the soup as
per usual.'
</p>

<p>
'Didn't you like the job?' Paul asked.
</p>

<p>
'Top hole,' said Grimes, 'but the hell of a thing happened.
Tell you later.'
</p>

<p>
That morning, complete with pickaxes, field-telephone
and two armed and mounted warders, Paul and a little squad
of fellow-criminals were led to the quarries.  Grimes was in
the party.
</p>

<p>
'I've been here a fortnight,' said Grimes as soon as they
got an opportunity of talking, 'and it seems too long already.
I've always been a sociable chap, and I don't like it.  Three
years is too long, old boy.  Still, we'll have God's own beano
when I get out.  I've been thinking about that day and
night.'
</p>

<p>
'I suppose it was bigamy?" said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'The same.  I ought to have stayed abroad.  I was arrested
as soon as I landed.  You see, Mrs Grimes turned up at the
shop, so off Grimes went.  There are various sorts of hell,
but that young woman can beat up a pretty lively one of her
own.'
</p>

<p>
A warder passed them by, and they moved apart, banging
industriously at the sandstone cliff before them.
</p>

<p>
'I'm not sure it wasn't worth it, though,' said Grimes, 'to
see poor old Flossie in the box and my sometime father-in-law.
I hear the old man's shut down the school.  Grimes gave
the place a bad name.  See anything of old Prendy ever?'
</p>

<p>
'He was murdered the other day.'
</p>

<p>
'Poor old Prendy!  He wasn't cut out for the happy life,
was he?  D'you know, I think I shall give up schoolmastering
for good when I get out.  It doesn't lead anywhere.'
</p>

<p>
'It seems to have led us both to the same place.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.  Rather a coincidence, isn't it?  Damn, here's that
policeman again.'
</p>

<p>
Soon they were marched back to the prison.  Except for
the work in the quarries, life at Egdon was almost the same
as at Blackstone.
</p>

<p>
'Slops outside', chapel, privacy.
</p>

<p>
After a week, however, Paul became conscious of an alien
influence at work.  His first intimation of this came from
the Chaplain.
</p>

<p>
'Your library books,' he said one day, popping cheerfully
into Paul's cell and handing him two new novels, still in
their wrappers, and bearing inside them the label of a
Piccadilly bookseller.  'If you don't like them I have several
for you to choose from.'  He showed him rather coyly the
pile of gaily-bound volumes he carried under his arm.  'I
thought you'd like the new Virginia Woolf.  It's only been
out two days.'
</p>

<p>
'Thank you, sir,' said Paul politely.  Clearly the library of
his new prison was run on a much more enterprising and
extravagant plan than at Blackstone.
</p>

<p>
'Or there's this book on Theatrical Design,' said the
Chaplain, showing him a large illustrated volume that
could hardly have cost less than three guineas.  'Perhaps
we might stretch a point and give you that as well as your
"educational work".'
</p>

<p>
'Thank you, sir,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Let me know if you want a change,' said the Chaplain.
'And, by the way, you're allowed to write a letter now, you
know.  If, by any chance, you're writing to Mrs
Beste-Chetwynde, do mention that you think the library good.
She's presenting a new pulpit to the chapel in carved
alabaster,' he added irrelevantly, and popped out again to
give Grimes a copy of Smiles's <i>Self-Help</i>, out of which some
unreceptive reader in the remote past had torn the last
hundred and eight pages.
</p>

<p>
'People may think as they like about well-thumbed
favourites,' thought Paul, 'but there is something
incomparably thrilling in first opening a brand-new book.
Why should the Chaplain want me to mention the library
to Margot?' he wondered.
</p>

<p>
That evening at supper Paul noticed without surprise
that there were several small pieces of coal in his dripping:
that kind of thing did happen now and then; but he was
somewhat disconcerted, when he attempted to scrape them
out, to find that they were quite soft.  Prison food was often
rather odd, it was a mistake to complain; but still....  He
examined his dripping more closely.  It had a pinkish tinge
that should not have been there and was unusually firm
and sticky under his knife.  He tasted it dubiously.  It was
<i>pâté de foie gras</i>.
</p>

<p>
From then onwards there was seldom a day on which
some small meteorite of this kind did not mysteriously fall
from the outside world.  One day he returned from the
heath to find his cell heavy with scent in the half-dark,
for the lights were rarely lit until some time after
sundown, and the window was very small.  His table was filled
with a large bunch of winter roses, which had cost three
shillings each that morning in Bond Street.  (Prisoners at
Egdon are allowed to keep flowers in their cells, and often
risk severe reprimand by stooping to pick pimpernels and
periwinkles on their way from work.)
</p>

<p>
On another occasion the prison-doctor, trotting on his
daily round of inspection, paused at Paul's cell, examined
his name on the card hanging inside his door, looked hard
at him and said, 'You need a tonic.'  He trotted on without
more ado, but next day a huge medicine-bottle was placed
in Paul's cell.  'You're to take two glasses with each meal,'
said the warder, 'and I hopes you like it.'  Paul could
not quite decide whether the warder's tone was friendly
or not, but he liked the medicine, for it was brown
sherry.
</p>

<p>
On another occasion great indignation was aroused in the
cell next door to him, whose occupant—an aged burglar—was
inadvertently given Paul's ration of caviare.  He was
speedily appeased by the substitution for it of an unusually
large lump of cold bacon, but not before the warder in
charge had suffered considerable alarm at the possibility of
a complaint to the Governor.
</p>

<p>
'I'm not one to make a fuss usually,' said the old burglar,
'but I will be treated fair.  Why, you only had to look at the
stuff they give me to see it was bad, let alone taste it.  And
on bacon night, too!  You take my tip,' he said to Paul as
they found themselves alone in the quarries one day, 'and
keep your eyes open.  You're a new one, and they might
easily try and put a thing like that over on you.  Don't eat
it, that's putting you in the wrong.  Keep it and show it to
the Governor.  They ain't got no right to try on a thing like
that, and they knows it.'
</p>

<p>
Presently a letter came from Margot.  It was not a long
one.
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Darling Paul</i> (it said),
</p>

<p>
<i>It is so difficult writing to you because, you know, I never
can write letters, and it's so particularly hard with you
because the policemen read it and cross it all out if they don't
like it, and I can't really think of anything they will like.
Peter and I are back at King's Thursday.  It was divine at
Corfu, except for an English doctor who was a bore and
would call so often.  Do you know, I don't really like this house
terribly, and I'm having it redone.  Do you mind?  Peter has
become an earl—did you know?—and is rather sweet about
it, and very self-conscious, which you wouldn't expect, really,
would you, knowing Peter?  I'm going to come and see you
some time—may I?—when I can get away, but Bobby P.'s
death has made such a lot of things to see to.  I do hope you're
getting enough food and books and things, or will they cross
that out?  Love, Margot.  I was cut by Lady Circumference,
my dear, at Newmarket, a real point-blank Tranby Croft
cut.  Poor Maltravers says if I'm not careful I shall find
myself socially ostracized.  Don't you think that will be
marvellous?  I may be wrong, but, d'you know, I rather believe
poor little Alastair Trumpington's going to fall in love with
me.  What shall I do?</i>
</p>

<p>
Eventually Margot came herself.
</p>

<p>
It was the first time they had met since the morning in
June when she had sent him off to rescue her distressed
protégées in Marseilles.  The meeting took place in a small
room set aside for visitors.  Margot sat at one end of the
table, Paul at the other, with a warder between them.
</p>

<p>
'I must ask you both to put your hands on the table in
front of you,' said the warder.
</p>

<p>
'Like Up Jenkins,' said Margot faintly, laying her
exquisitely manicured hands with the gloves beside her
bag.  Paul for the first time noticed how coarse and ill-kept
his hands had become.  For a moment neither spoke.
</p>

<p>
'Do I look awful?' Paul said at last.  'I haven't seen a
looking-glass for some time.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, perhaps just a little <i>mal soigné</i>, darling.  Don't
they let you shave at all?'
</p>

<p>
'No discussion of the prison régime is permitted.  Prisoners
are allowed to make a plain statement of their state of
health but must on no account make complaints or
comments upon their general condition.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh dear!' said Margot; 'this is going to be very difficult.
What are we to say to each other?  I'm almost sorry I came.
You are glad I came, aren't you?'
</p>

<p>
'Don't mind me, mum, if you wants to talk personal,'
said the warder kindly.  'I only has to stop conspiracy.
Nothing I hears ever goes any further, and I hears a good
deal, I can tell you.  They carry on awful, some of the
women, what with crying and fainting and hysterics
generally.  Why, one of them,' he said with relish, 'had an
epileptic fit not long ago.'
</p>

<p>
'I think it's more than likely I shall have a fit,' said
Margot.  'I've never felt so shy in my life.  Paul, <i>do</i> say
something, please.'
</p>

<p>
'How's Alastair?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Rather sweet, really.  He's always at King's Thursday
now.  I like him.'
</p>

<p>
Another pause.
</p>

<p>
'Do you know,' said Margot, 'it's an odd thing, but I do
believe that after all these years I'm beginning to be
regarded as no longer a respectable woman.  I told you when
I wrote, didn't I, that Lady Circumference cut me the other
day?  Of course she's just a thoroughly bad-mannered old
woman, but there have been a whole lot of things rather
like that lately.  Don't you think it's rather awful?'
</p>

<p>
'You won't mind much, will you?' said Paul.  'They're
awful old bores, anyway.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, but I don't like <i>them</i> dropping <i>me</i>.  Of course, I don't
mind, really, but I think it's a pity, particularly for Peter.
It's not just Lady Circumference, but Lady Vanbrugh and
Fanny Simpleforth and the Stayles and all those people.  It's
a pity it should happen just when Peter's beginning to be a
little class-conscious, anyway.  It'll give him all the wrong
ideas, don't you think?'
</p>

<p>
'How's business?' asked Paul abruptly.
</p>

<p>
'Paul, you mustn't be nasty to me,' said Margot in a low
voice.  'I don't think you'd say that if you knew quite how
I was feeling.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm sorry, Margot.  As a matter of fact, I just wanted to
know.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm selling out.  A Swiss firm was making things difficult.
But I don't think that business has anything to do with the—the
ostracism, as Maltravers would say.  I believe it's all
because I'm beginning to grow old.'
</p>

<p>
'I never heard anything so ridiculous.  Why, all those
people are about eighty, and anyway you aren't at
all.'
</p>

<p>
'I was afraid you wouldn't understand,' said Margot, and
there was another pause.
</p>

<p>
'Ten minutes more,' said the warder.
</p>

<p>
'Things haven't turned out quite as we expected them to,
have they?' said Margot.
</p>

<p>
They talked about some parties Margot had been to and
the books Paul was reading.  At last Margot said: 'Paul, I'm
going.  I simply can't stand another moment of this.'
</p>

<p>
'It was nice of you to come,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I've decided something rather important,' said Margot,
'just this minute.  I am going to be married quite soon to
Maltravers.  I'm sorry, but I am.'
</p>

<p>
'I suppose it's because I look so awful?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No, it's just everything.  It's that, too, in a way, but not
the way you mean, Paul.  It's simply something that's going
to happen.  Do you understand at all, dear?  It may help you,
too, in a way, but I don't want you to think that that's the
reason, either.  It's just how things are going to happen.
Oh dear!  How difficult it is to say anything.'
</p>

<p>
'If you should want to kiss goodbye,' said the gaoler, 'not
being husband and wife, it's not usual.  Still, I don't mind
stretching a point for once....'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, God!' said Margot, and left the room without looking
back.
</p>

<p>
Paul returned to his cell.  His supper had already been
served out to him, a small pie from which protruded the
feet of two pigeons, there was even a table-napkin wrapped
round it.  But Paul had very little appetite, for he was
greatly pained at how little he was pained by the events of
the afternoon.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER V
<br/>
<i>The Passing of a Public School Man</i>
</h3>

<p>
A day or two later Paul again found himself next to Grimes
in the quarry.  When the warder was out of earshot Grimes
said: 'Old boy, I can't stand this much longer.  It just ain't
good enough.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't see any way out,' said Paul.  'Anyway, it's quite
bearable.  I'd as soon be here as at Llanabba.'
</p>

<p>
'Not so Grimes,' said Grimes.  'He just languishes in
captivity, like the lark.  It's all right for you—you like
reading and thinking, and all that.  Well, I'm different, you
know.  I like drink and a bit of fun, and chatting now and
then to my pals.  I'm a sociable chap.  It's turning me into a
giddy machine, this life, and there's an awful chaplain,
who gives me the pip, who keeps butting in in a breezy
kind of way and asking if I feel I'm "right with God".  Of
course I'm not, and I tell him so.  I can stand most sorts of
misfortune, old boy, but I can't stand repression.  That was
what broke me up at Llanabba, and it's what's going to
break me up here, if I don't look out for myself.  It seems to
me it's time Grimes flitted off to another clime.'
</p>

<p>
'No one has ever succeeded in escaping from this prison,'
said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Well, just you watch next time there's a fog!'
</p>

<p>
As luck would have it, there was a fog next day, a heavy
impenetrable white mist which came up quite suddenly
while they were at work, enveloping men and quarry in
the way that mists do on Egdon Heath.
</p>

<p>
'Close up there,' said the warder in charge.  'Stop work
and close up.  Look out there, you idiot!' for Grimes had
stumbled over the field-telephone.  'If you've broken it
you'll come up before the Governor tomorrow.'
</p>

<p>
'Hold this horse,' said the other warder, handing the
reins to Grimes.
</p>

<p>
He stooped and began to collect the chains on which the
men were strung for their march home.  Grimes seemed to
be having some difficulty with the horse, which was
plunging and rearing further away from the squad.  'Can't
you even hold a horse?' said the warder.  Suddenly Grimes,
with remarkable agility considering his leg, was seen to be
in the saddle riding away into the heath.
</p>

<p>
'Come back,' roared the warder, 'come back, or I'll fire.'  He
put his rifle to his shoulder and fired into the fog.  'He'll
come back all right,' he said.  'No one ever gets away for
long.  He'll get solitary confinement and No. 1 diet for this,
poor fish.'
</p>

<p>
No one seemed to be much disturbed by the incident,
even when it was found that the field-telephone was
disconnected.
</p>

<p>
'He hasn't a hope,' said the warder.  'They often do that,
just put down their tools sudden and cut and run.  But they
can't get away in those clothes and with no money.  We
shall warn all the farms tonight.  Sometimes they stays out
hiding for several days, but back they comes when they're
hungry, or else they get arrested the moment they shows up
in a village.  I reckon it's just nerves makes them try it.'
</p>

<p>
That evening the horse came back, but there was no
sign of Grimes.  Special patrols were sent out with bloodhounds
straining at their leashes, the farms and villages on
the heath were warned, and the anxious inhabitants barred
their doors closely and more pertinently forbade their
children to leave the house on any pretext whatever, the
roads were watched for miles, and all cars were stopped and
searched, to the intense annoyance of many law-abiding
citizens.  But Grimes did not turn up.  Bets were slyly made
among the prisoners as to the day of his recovery, but days
passed, and rations of bread changed hands, but still there
was no Grimes.
</p>

<p>
A week later at morning service the Chaplain prayed for
his soul: the Governor crossed his name off the Body
Receipt Book and notified the Home Secretary, the Right
Honourable Sir Humphrey Maltravers, that Grimes was dead.
</p>

<p>
'I'm afraid it was a terrible end,' said the Chaplain to
Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Did they find the body?'
</p>

<p>
'No, that is the worst thing about it.  The hounds followed
his scent as far as Egdon Mire; there it ended.  A shepherd
who knows the paths through the bog found his hat floating
on the surface at the most treacherous part.  I'm afraid there
is no doubt that he died a very horrible death.'
</p>

<p>
'Poor old Grimes!' said Paul.  'And he was an old
Harrovian, too.'
</p>

<p>
But later, thinking things over as he ate peacefully, one
by one, the oysters that had been provided as a 'relish' for
his supper, Paul knew that Grimes was not dead.  Lord
Tangent was dead; Mr Prendergast was dead; the time
would even come for Paul Pennyfeather, but Grimes, Paul
at last realized, was of the immortals.  He was a life force.
Sentenced to death in Flanders, he popped up in Wales;
drowned in Wales, he emerged in South America; engulfed
in the dark mystery of Egdon Mire, he would rise again
somewhere at some time, shaking from his limbs the musty
integuments of the tomb.  Surely he had followed in the
Bacchic train of distant Arcady, and played on the reeds of
myth by forgotten streams, and taught the childish satyrs
the art of love?  Had he not suffered unscathed the fearful
dooms of all the offended gods of all the histories, fire,
brimstone and yawning earthquakes, plague and pestilence?
Had he not stood, like the Pompeian sentry, while the
Citadels of the Plain fell to ruin about his ears?  Had he not,
like some grease-caked Channel-swimmer, breasted the
waves of the Deluge?  Had he not moved unseen when
darkness covered the waters?
</p>

<p>
'I often wonder whether I am blameless in the matter,'
said the Chaplain.  'It is awful to think of someone under my
care having come to so terrible an end.  I tried to console
him and reconcile him with his life, but things are so
difficult, there are so many men to see.  Poor fellow!  To
think of him alone out there in the bog, with no one to help
him!'
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VI
<br/>
<i>The Passing of Paul Pennyfeather</i>
</h3>

<p>
A few days later Paul was summoned to the Governor's
room.
</p>

<p>
'I have an order here from the Home Secretary granting
leave for you to go into a private nursing home for the
removal of your appendix.  You will start under escort, in
plain clothes, this morning.'
</p>

<p>
'But, sir,' said Paul, 'I don't want to have my appendix
removed.  In fact, it was done years ago when I was still
at school.'
</p>

<p>
'Nonsense!' said the Governor.  'I've got an order here
from the Home Secretary especially requiring that it shall
be done.  Officer, take this man away and give him his
clothes for the journey.'
</p>

<p>
Paul was led away.  The clothes in which he had been
tried had been sent with him from Blackstone.  The warder
took them out of a locker, unfolded them and handed them
to Paul.  'Shoes, socks, trousers, waistcoat, coat, shirt, collar,
tie and hat,' he said.  'Will you sign for them?  The jewellery
stays here.'  He collected the watch, links, tie-pin, note-case
and the other odds and ends that had been in Paul's pockets
and put them back in the locker.  'We can't do anything
about your hair,' said the warder, 'but you're allowed a
shave.'
</p>

<p>
Half an hour later Paul emerged from his cell, looking for
all the world like a normal civilized man, such as you might
see daily in any tube-railway.
</p>

<p>
'Feels funny, don't it?' said the warder who let him out.
'Here's your escort.'
</p>

<p>
Another normal civilized man, such as you might see
daily in any tube-railway, confronted Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Time we started, if you're quite ready,' he said.  Robbed
of their uniforms, it seemed natural that they should treat
each other with normal consideration.  Indeed, Paul thought
he detected a certain deference in the man's tone.
</p>

<p>
'It's very odd,' said Paul in the van that took them to the
station, 'it's no good arguing with the Governor, but he's
made some ridiculous mistake.  I've had my appendix out
already.'
</p>

<p>
'Not half,' said the warder with a wink, 'but don't
go talking about it so loud.  The driver's not in on
this.'
</p>

<p>
A first-class carriage had been reserved for them in the
train.  As they drew out of Egdon Station the warder said:
'Well, that's the last you'll see of the old place for some time.
Solemn thought, death, ain't it?'  And he gave another
shattering wink.
</p>

<p>
They had luncheon in their carriage, Paul feeling a little
too shy of his closely-cropped head to venture hatless into
the restaurant car.  After luncheon they smoked cigars.  The
warder paid from a fat note-case.  'Oh, I nearly forgot,' he
said.  'Here's your will for you to sign, in case anything
should happen.'  He produced a long blue paper and handed
it to Paul.  <i>The Last Will and Testament of Paul Pennyfeather</i>
was handsomely engraved at the top.  Below, it was
stated, with the usual legal periphrases, that he left all he
possessed to Margot Beste-Chetwynde.  Two witnesses had
already signed below the vacant space.  'I'm sure this is all
very irregular,' said Paul, signing, 'I wish you'd tell me
what all this means.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't know nothing,' said the warder.  'The young
gentleman give me the will.'
</p>

<p>
'What young gentleman?'
</p>

<p>
'How should I know?' said the warder.  'The young gentleman
what's arranged everything.  Very sensible to make a
will.  You never know with an operation what may happen,
do you?  I had an aunt died having gall-stones taken out, and
she hadn't made a will.  Very awkward it was, her not being
married properly, you see.  Fine, healthy woman, too, to
look at her.  Don't you get worried, Mr Pennyfeather,
everything will be done strictly according to regulations.'
</p>

<p>
'Where are we going?  At least you must know that.'
</p>

<p>
For answer the warder took a printed card from his pocket.
</p>

<p>
<i>Cliff Place, Worthing, he read.  High-class Nursing and
Private Sanatorium.  Electrical thermal treatment under
medical supervision.  Augustus Fagan, M.D., Proprietor</i>.
'Approved by the Home Secretary,' said the warder.
'Nothing to complain of.'
</p>

<p>
Late in the afternoon they arrived.  A car was waiting
to take them to Cliff Place.
</p>

<p>
'This ends my responsibility,' said the warder.  'From
now on the doctor's in charge.'
</p>

<p>
Like all Dr Fagan's enterprises, Cliff Place was conceived
on a large scale.  The house stood alone on the sea-shore
some miles from the town, and was approached by a long
drive.  In detail, however, it showed some signs of neglect.
The veranda was deep in driven leaves, two of the windows
were broken.  Paul's escort rang the bell at the front door,
and Dingy, dressed as a nurse, opened it to them.
</p>

<p>
'The servants have all gone,' she said.  'I suppose this is
the appendicitis case.  Come in.'  She showed no signs of
recognizing Paul as she led him upstairs.  'This is your
room.  The Home Office regulations insisted that it should
be on an upper storey with barred windows.  We have had
to put the bars in specially.  They will be charged for in the
bill.  The surgeon will be here in a few minutes.'
</p>

<p>
As she went out she locked the door.  Paul sat down on the
bed and waited.  Below his window the sea beat on the
shingle.  A small steam-yacht lay at anchor some distance
out to sea.  The grey horizon faded indistinctly into the
grey sky.
</p>

<p>
Presently steps approached, and his door opened.  In came
Dr Fagan, Sir Alastair Digby-Vaine-Trumpington, and an
elderly little man with a drooping red moustache, evidently
much the worse for drink.
</p>

<p>
'Sorry we're late,' said Sir Alastair, 'but I've had an
awful day with this man trying to keep him sober.  He gave
me the slip just as we were starting.  I was afraid at first
that he was too tight to be moved, but I think he can just
carry on.  Have you got the papers made out?'
</p>

<p>
No one paid much attention to Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Here they are,' said Dr Fagan.  'This is the statement you
are to forward to the Home Secretary, and a duplicate for
the Governor of the prison.  Shall I read them to you?'
</p>

<p>
''Sh'all right!' said the surgeon.
</p>

<p>
'They merely state that you operated on the patient for
appendicitis, but that he died under the anaesthetic without
regaining consciousness.'
</p>

<p>
'Poor ole chap!' said the surgeon.  'Poor, poor l'il girl!'  And
two tears of sympathy welled up in his eyes.  'I dare
say the world had been very hard on her.  It's a hard world
for women.'
</p>

<p>
'That's all right,' said Sir Alastair.  'Don't worry.  You did
all that was humanly possible.'
</p>

<p>
'That's the truth,' said the surgeon, 'and I don't care
who knows it.'
</p>

<p>
'This is the ordinary certificate of death,' said Dr Fagan.
'Will you be so good as to sign it there?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, death, where is thy sting-a-ling-a-ling?' said the
surgeon, and with these words and a laboured effort of the
pen he terminated the legal life of Paul Pennyfeather.
</p>

<p>
'Splendid!' said Sir Alastair.  'Now here's your money.  If
I were you I should run off and have a drink while the
pubs are still open.'
</p>

<p>
'D'you know, I think I will,' said the surgeon, and left
the sanatorium.
</p>

<p>
There was a hush for nearly a minute after he had left
the room.  The presence of death, even in its coldest and
most legal form, seemed to cause an air of solemnity.  It
was broken at length by the arrival of Flossie, splendidly attired in
magenta and green.
</p>

<p>
'Why, here you all are!' she said with genuine delight.
'And Mr Pennyfeather too, to be sure!  Quite a little party!'
</p>

<p>
She had said the right thing.  The word 'party' seemed to
strike a responsive note in Dr Fagan.
</p>

<p>
'Let us go down to supper,' he said.  'I'm sure we all have
a great deal to be thankful for.'
</p>

<p>
After supper Dr Fagan made a little speech.  'I think this an
important evening for most of us,' he said, 'most of all for
my dear friend and some-time colleague Paul Pennyfeather,
in whose death tonight we are all to some extent
participants.  For myself as well as for him it is the beginning
of a new phase of life.  Frankly, this nursing home has not
been a success.  A time must come to every man when he
begins to doubt his vocation.  You may think me almost an
old man, but I do not feel too old to start lightheartedly on a
new manner of life.  This evening's events have made this
possible for me.  I think,' he said, glancing at his daughters,
'that it is time I was alone.  But this is not the hour to review
the plans of my future.  When you get to my age, if you have
been at all observant of the people you have met and the
accidents which have happened to you, you cannot help
being struck with an amazing cohesiveness of events.  How
promiscuously we who are here this evening have been
thrown together!  How enduring and endearing the
memories that from now onwards will unite us!  I think we
should drink a toast—to Fortune, a much-maligned lady.'
</p>

<p>
Once before Paul had drunk the same toast.  This time
there was no calamity.  They drank silently, and Alastair
rose from the table.
</p>

<p>
'It's time Paul and I were going,' he said.
</p>

<p>
They walked down to the beach together.  A boat was
waiting for them.
</p>

<p>
'That's Margot's yacht,' said Alastair.  'It's to take you
to her house at Corfu until you've decided about things.
Goodbye.  Good luck!'
</p>

<p>
'Aren't you coming any further?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No, I've got to drive back to King's Thursday.  Margot
will be anxious to know how things have gone off.'
</p>

<p>
Paul got into the boat and was rowed away.  Sir Alastair,
like Sir Bedivere, watched him out of sight.
</p>

<h3>
CHAPTER VII
<br/>
<i>Resurrection</i>
</h3>

<p>
Three weeks later Paul sat on the veranda of Margot's
villa, with his evening <i>aperitif</i> before him, watching the
sunset on the Albanian hills across the water change,
with the crude brilliance of a German picture-postcard,
from green to violet.  He looked at his watch, which had
that morning arrived from England.  It was half-past six.
</p>

<p>
Below him in the harbour a ship had come in from Greece
and was unloading her cargo.  The little boats hung round
her like flies, plying their trade of olive-wood souvenirs and
forged francs.  There were two hours before dinner.  Paul
rose and descended the arcaded street into the square,
drawing his scarf tight about his throat; the evenings began to
get cold about this time.  It was odd being dead.  That
morning Margot had sent him a bunch of Press cuttings about
himself, most of them headed 'Wedding Sensation Echo' or
'Death of Society Bridegroom Convict.'
With them were his tie-pin and the rest of his possessions
which had been sent to her from Egdon.  He felt the need
of the bustle of the cafés and the quay-side to convince him
fully of his existence.  He stopped at a stall and bought some
Turkish delight.  It was odd being dead.
</p>

<p>
Suddenly he was aware of a familiar figure approaching
him across the square.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' said Otto Silenus.  He was carrying on his
shoulder a shapeless knapsack of canvas.
</p>

<p>
'Why don't you give that to one of the boys?  They'll
take it for a few drachmas.'
</p>

<p>
'I have no money.  Will you pay him?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'All right!  Then that will be best.  I suppose you are
staying with Margot?'
</p>

<p>
'I'm staying at her house.  She's in England.'
</p>

<p>
'That's a pity.  I hoped I should find her here.  Still I will
stay for a little, I think.  Will there be room for me?'
</p>

<p>
'I suppose so.  I'm all alone here.'
</p>

<p>
'I have changed my mind.  I think, after all, I will marry
Margot.'
</p>

<p>
'I'm afraid it's too late.'
</p>

<p>
'Too late?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, she's married someone else.'
</p>

<p>
'I never thought of that.  Oh well, it doesn't matter really.
Whom did she marry?  That sensible Maltravers?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, he's changed his name now.  He's called Viscount
Metroland.'
</p>

<p>
'What a funny name!'
</p>

<p>
They walked up the hill together.  'I've just been to
Greece to see the buildings there,' said Professor Silenus.
</p>

<p>
'Did you like them?'
</p>

<p>
'They are unspeakably ugly.  But there were some nice
goats.  I thought they sent you to prison.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, they did, but I got out.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, you must have, I suppose.  Wasn't it nice?'
</p>

<p>
'Not terribly.'
</p>

<p>
'Funny!  I thought it would suit you so well.  You
never can tell with people, can you, what's going to suit
them?'
</p>

<p>
Margot's servants did not seem surprised at the arrival
of another guest.
</p>

<p>
'I think I shall stay here a long time,' said Professor
Silenus after dinner.  'I have no money left.  Are you going
soon?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I'm going back to Oxford again to learn theology.'
</p>

<p>
'That will be a good thing.  You used not to have a
moustache, used you?' he asked after a time.
</p>

<p>
'No,' said Paul.  'I'm just growing one now.  I don't want
people to recognize me when I go back to England.'
</p>

<p>
'I think it's uglier,' said Professor Silenus.  'Well, I must
go to bed.'
</p>

<p>
'Have you slept any better lately?'
</p>

<p>
'Twice since I saw you.  It's about my average.  Good
night.'
</p>

<p>
Ten minutes later he came back on to the terrace, wearing
silk pyjamas and a tattered old canvas dressing-gown.
</p>

<p>
'Can you lend me a nail file?' he asked.
</p>

<p>
'There's one on my dressing table.'
</p>

<p>
'Thank you.'  But he did not go.  Instead he walked to the
parapet and leant out, looking across the sea.  'It's a good
thing for you to be a clergyman,' he said at last.  'People get
ideas about a thing they call life.  It sets them all wrong.  I
think it's poets that are responsible chiefly.  Shall I tell you
about life?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, do,' said Paul politely.
</p>

<p>
'Well, it's like the big wheel at Luna Park.  Have you
seen the big wheel?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I'm afraid not.'
</p>

<p>
'You pay five francs and go into a room with tiers of
seats all round, and in the centre the floor is made of a
great disc of polished wood that revolves quickly.  At first
you sit down and watch the others.  They are all trying to
sit in the wheel, and they keep getting flung off, and that
makes them laugh, and you laugh too.  It's great fun.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't think that sounds very much like life,' said Paul
rather sadly.
</p>

<p>
'Oh, but it is, though.  You see, the nearer you can get to
the hub of the wheel the slower it is moving and the easier
it is to stay on.  There's generally someone in the centre
who stands up and sometimes does a sort of dance.  Often he's
paid by the management, though, or, at any rate, he's
allowed in free.  Of course at the very centre there's a point
completely at rest, if one could only find it.  I'm not sure I
am not very near that point myself.  Of course the
professional men get in the way.  Lots of people just enjoy
scrambling on and being whisked off and scrambling
on again.  How they all shriek and giggle!  Then there
are others, like Margot, who sit as far out as they can
and hold on for dear life and enjoy that.  But the whole
point about the wheel is that you needn't get on it at all, if
you don't want to.  People get hold of ideas about life, and
that makes them think they've got to join in the game, even
if they don't enjoy it.  It doesn't suit every one.
</p>

<p>
'People don't see that when they say "life" they mean
two different things.  They can mean simply existence, with
its physiological implications of growth and organic change.
They can't escape that—even by death, but because that's
inevitable they think the other idea of life is too—the
scrambling and excitement and bumps and the effort to get
to the middle, and when we do get to the middle, it's just
as if we never started.  It's so odd.
</p>

<p>
'Now you're a person who was clearly meant to stay in
the seats and sit still and if you get bored watch the others.
Somehow you got on to the wheel, and you got thrown off
again at once with a hard bump.  It's all right for Margot,
who can cling on, and for me, at the centre, but you're
static.  Instead of this absurd division into sexes they ought
to class people as static and dynamic.  There's a real
distinction there, though I can't tell you how it comes.  I think
we're probably two quite different species spiritually.
</p>

<p>
'I used that idea of the wheel in a cinema film once.  I
think it rather sounds like it, don't you?  What was it I
came back for?'
</p>

<p>
'A nail file.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, yes, of course.  I know of no more utterly boring
and futile occupation than generalizing about life.  Did you
take in what I was saying?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I think so.'
</p>

<p>
'I think I shall have my meals alone in future.  Will you
tell the servants?  It makes me feel quite ill to talk so much.
Good night.'
</p>

<p>
'Good night,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
Some months later Paul returned to Scone College after the
absence of little more than a year.  His death, though
depriving him of his certificates, left him his knowledge.
He sat successfully for smalls and Matriculation and
entered his old college once more, wearing a commoner's
gown and a heavy cavalry moustache.  This and his natural
diffidence formed a complete disguise.  Nobody recognized
him.  After much doubt and deliberation he retained the
name of Pennyfeather, explaining to the Chaplain that he
had, he believed, had a distant cousin at Scone a short time
ago.
</p>

<p>
'He came to a very sad end,' said the Chaplain, 'a wild
young man.'
</p>

<p>
'He was a <i>very</i> distant cousin,' said Paul hastily.
</p>

<p>
'Yes, yes, I am sure he was.  There is no resemblance
between you.  He was a thoroughly degenerate type, I am
afraid.'
</p>

<p>
Paul's scout also remembered the name.
</p>

<p>
'There used to be another Mr Pennyfeather on this staircase
once,' he said, 'a very queer gentleman indeed.  Would
you believe it, sir, he used to take off all his clothes and go
out and dance in the quad at night.  Nice quiet gentleman,
too, he was, except for his dancing.  He must have been a
little queer in his head, I suppose.  I don't know what
became of him.  They say he died in prison.'  Then he
proceeded to tell Paul about an Annamese student who had
attempted to buy one of the Senior Tutor's daughters.
</p>

<p>
On the second Sunday of term the Chaplain asked Paul
to breakfast.  'It's a sad thing,' he said, 'the way that the
'Varsity breakfast—"brekker" we used to call it in my day—is
dying out.  People haven't time for it.  Always off to
lectures at nine o'clock, except on Sundays.  Have another
kidney, won't you?'
</p>

<p>
There was another don present, called Mr Sniggs, who
addressed the Chaplain rather superciliously, Paul thought,
as 'Padre'.
</p>

<p>
There was also an undergraduate from another college,
a theological student called Stubbs, a grave young man with
a quiet voice and with carefully formed opinions.  He had a
little argument with Mr Sniggs about the plans for rebuilding
the Bodleian.  Paul supported him.
</p>

<p>
Next day Paul found Stubbs' card on his table, the corner
turned up.  Paul went to Hertford to call on Stubbs, but
found him out.  He left his card, the corner turned up.  Two
days later a little note came from Hertford:
</p>

<p class="noindent">
<i>Dear Pennyfeather,</i>
</p>

<p>
<i>I wonder if you would care to come to tea next Tuesday,
to meet the College Secretary of the League of Nations Union
and the Chaplain of the Oxford prison.  It would be so nice if
you could.</i>
</p>

<p>
Paul went and ate honey buns and anchovy toast.  He
liked the ugly, subdued little College, and he liked Stubbs.
</p>

<p>
As term went on Paul and Stubbs took to going for walks
together, over Mesopotamia to Old Marston and Beckley.
One afternoon, quite light-hearted at the fresh weather,
and their long walk, and their tea, Stubbs signed Randal
Cantuar in the visitors' book.
</p>

<p>
Paul rejoined the League of Nations Union and the
O.S.C.U.  On one occasion he and Stubbs and some other
friends went to the prison to visit the criminals there and
sing part-songs to them.
</p>

<p>
'It opens the mind,' said Stubbs, 'to see all sides of life.
How those unfortunate men appreciated our singing!'
</p>

<p>
One day in Blackwell's bookshop Paul found a stout
volume, which, the assistant told him, was rapidly becoming
a best-seller.  It was called <i>Mother Wales</i>, by Augustus
Fagan.  Paul bought it and took it back with him.  Stubbs
had already read it.
</p>

<p>
'Most illuminating,' he said.  'The hospital statistics are
terrible.  Do you think it would be a good idea to organize a
joint debate with Jesus on the subject?'  The book was
dedicated '<i>To my wife, a wedding present</i>'.  It was eloquently
written.  When he had read it Paul put it on his shelves
next to Dean Stanley's <i>Eastern Church</i>.
</p>

<p>
One other incident recalled momentarily Paul's past life.
</p>

<p>
One day, at the beginning of his second year, as Paul and
Stubbs were bicycling down the High as from one lecture
to another, they nearly ran into an open Rolls-Royce that
swung out of Oriel Street at a dangerous speed.  In the back,
a heavy fur rug over his knees, sat Philbrick.  He turned
round as he passed and waved a gloved hand to Paul over
the hood.
</p>

<p>
'Hullo!' he said; 'hullo!  How are you?  Come and look me
up one day.  I'm living on the river—Skindle's.'
</p>

<p>
Then the car disappeared down the High Street, and
Paul went on to his lecture.
</p>

<p>
'Who was your opulent friend?' asked Stubbs, rather
impressed.
</p>

<p>
'Arnold Bennett,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'I thought I knew his face,' said Stubbs.
</p>

<p>
Then the lecturer came in, arranged his papers and began
a lucid exposition of the heresies of the second century.
There was a bishop in Bithynia, Paul learned, who had
denied the Divinity of Christ, the immortality of the soul,
the existence of good, the legality of marriage, and the
validity of the Sacrament of Extreme Unction!  How right
they had been to condemn him!
</p>

<h3>
Epilogue
</h3>

<p>
It was Paul's third year of uneventful residence at Scone.
Stubbs finished his cocoa, knocked out his pipe and rose
to go.  'I must be off to my digs,' he said.  'You're lucky
staying in college.  It's a long ride back to Walton Street on
a night like this.'
</p>

<p>
'D'you want to take Von Hugel?' asked Paul.
</p>

<p>
'No, not tonight.  May I leave it till tomorrow?'
</p>

<p>
Stubbs picked up his scholar's gown and wrapped it round
his shoulders.  'That was an interesting paper tonight about
the Polish plebiscites.'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, wasn't it?' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
Outside there was a confused roaring and breaking of
glass.
</p>

<p>
'The Bollinger seem to be enjoying themselves,' said
Paul.  'Whose rooms are they in this time?'
</p>

<p>
'Pastmaster's, I think.  That young man seems to be going
a bit fast for his age.'
</p>

<p>
'Well, I hope he enjoys it,' said Paul.  'Good night.'
</p>

<p>
'Good night, Paul,' said Stubbs.
</p>

<p>
Paul put the chocolate biscuits back in the cupboard,
refilled his pipe, and settled down in his chair.
</p>

<p>
Presently he heard footsteps and a knock at his door.
</p>

<p>
'Come in,' he said, looking round.
</p>

<p>
Peter Pastmaster came into the room.  He was dressed in
the bottle-green and white evening coat of the Bollinger
Club.  His face was flushed and his dark hair slightly
disordered.
</p>

<p>
'May I come in?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, do.'
</p>

<p>
'Have you got a drink?'
</p>

<p>
'You seem to have had a good many already.'
</p>

<p>
'I've had the Boller in my rooms.  Noisy lot.  Oh, hell!  I
must have a drink.'
</p>

<p>
'There's some whisky in the cupboard.  You're drinking
rather a lot these days, aren't you, Peter?'
</p>

<p>
Peter said nothing, but helped himself to some whisky
and soda.
</p>

<p>
'Feeling a bit ill,' he said.  Then, after a pause, 'Paul, why
have you been cutting me all this time?'
</p>

<p>
'I don't know.  I didn't think there was much to be gained
by our knowing each other.'
</p>

<p>
'Not angry about anything?'
</p>

<p>
'No, why should I be?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I don't know.'  Peter turned his glass in his hand,
staring at it intently.  'I've been rather angry with you,
you know.'
</p>

<p>
'Why?'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, I don't know—about Margot and the man
Maltravers and everything.'
</p>

<p>
'I don't think I was much to blame.'
</p>

<p>
'No, I suppose not, only you were part of it all.'
</p>

<p>
'How's Margot?'
</p>

<p>
'She's all right—<i>Margot Metroland</i>.  D'you mind if I
take another drink?'
</p>

<p>
'I suppose not.'
</p>

<p>
'Viscountess Metroland,' said Peter.  'What a name.
What a man!  Still, she's got Alastair all the time.
Metroland doesn't mind.  He's got what he wanted.  I don't
see much of them really.  What do you do all the time,
Paul?'
</p>

<p>
'I'm going to be ordained soon.'
</p>

<p>
'Wish I didn't feel so damned ill.  What were we saying?
Oh yes, about Metroland.  You know, Paul, I think it was a
mistake you ever got mixed up with us; don't you?  We're
different somehow.  Don't quite know how.  Don't think
that's rude, do you, Paul?'
</p>

<p>
'No, I know exactly what you mean.  You're dynamic,
and I'm static.'
</p>

<p>
'Is that it?  Expect you're right.  Funny thing you used
to teach me once, d'you remember?  Llanabba—Latin
sentences, <i>Quominus</i> and <i>Quin</i>, and the organ, d'you
remember?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I remember,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'Funny how things happen.  You used to teach me the
organ, d'you remember?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I remember,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'And then Margot Metroland wanted to marry you,
d'you remember?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul.
</p>

<p>
'And then you went to prison, and Alastair—that's
Margot Metroland's young man—and Metroland—that's
her husband—got you out, d'you remember?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul, 'I remember.'
</p>

<p>
'And here we are talking to one another like this, up
here, after all that!  Funny, isn't it?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, it is rather.'
</p>

<p>
'Paul, do you remember a thing you said once at the
Ritz—Alastair was there—that's Margot Metroland's young
man, you know—d'you remember?  I was rather tight then
too.  You said, "Fortune, a much-maligned lady".  D'you
remember that?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes,' said Paul, 'I remember.'
</p>

<p>
'Good old Paul!  I knew you would.  Let's drink to that
now, shall we?  How did it go?  Damn, I've forgotten it.
Never mind.  I wish I didn't feel so ill.'
</p>

<p>
'You drink too much, Peter.'
</p>

<p>
'Oh, damn, what else is there to do?  You going to be a
clergyman, Paul?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes.'
</p>

<p>
'Damned funny that.  You know you ought never to have
got mixed up with me and Metroland.  May I have another
drink?'
</p>

<p>
'Time you went to bed, Peter, don't you think?'
</p>

<p>
'Yes, I suppose it is.  Didn't mind my coming in, did you?
After all, you used to teach me the organ, d'you remember?
Thanks for the whisky!'
</p>

<p>
So Peter went out, and Paul settled down again in his
chair.  So the ascetic Ebionites used to turn towards
Jerusalem when they prayed.  Paul made a note of it.  Quite
right to suppress them.  Then he turned out the light and
went into his bedroom to sleep.
</p>
