<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>CHAPTER IV<br/>
			Mr Prendergast</h3>
			<p>Paul was awakened next morning by a loud bang on his door, and Beste-Chetwynde looked in. He was wearing a very expensive-looking Charvet dressing-gown.</p>
			<p>'Good morning, sir,' he said. 'I thought I'd come and tell you, as you wouldn't know: there's only one bath-room for the masters. If you want to get there before Mr Prendergast, you ought to go now. Captain Grimes doesn't wash much,' he added, and then disappeared.</p>
			<p>Paul went to the bath and was rewarded some minutes later by hearing the shuffling of slippers down the passage and the door furiously rattled.</p>
			<p>As he was dressing Philbrick appeared.</p>
			<p>'Oh, I forgot to call you. Breakfast is in ten minutes.'</p>
			<p>After breakfast Paul went up to the Common Room. Mr Prendergast was there polishing his pipes, one by one, with a chamois leather. He looked reproachfully at Paul.</p>
			<p>'We must come to some arrangement about the bathroom,' he said. 'Grimes very rarely has a bath. I have one before breakfast.'</p>
			<p>'So do I,' said Paul defiantly.</p>
			<p>'Then I suppose I shall have to find some other time,' said Mr Prendergast, and he gave a deep sigh as he returned his attention to his pipes. 'After ten years, too,' he added, 'but everything's like that. I might have known you'd want the bath. It was so easy when there was only Grimes and that other young man. He was never down in time for breakfast. Oh dear! oh dear! I can see that things are going to be very difficult.'</p>
			<p>'But surely we could both have one?'</p>
			<p>'No, no, that's out of the question. It's all part of the same thing. Everything has been like this since I left the ministry.'</p>
			<p>Paul made no answer, and Mr Prendergast went on breathing and rubbing.</p>
			<p>'I expect you wonder how I came to be here?'</p>
			<p>'No, no,' said Paul soothingly. 'I think it's very natural.'</p>
			<p>'It's not natural at all; it's most unnatural. If things had happened a little differently I should be a rector with my own house and bath-room. I might even have been a rural dean, only'—and Mr Prendergast dropped his voice to a whisper—'only I had <i>Doubts</i>.'</p>
			<p>'I don't know why I'm telling you all this; nobody else knows. I somehow feel you'll understand.</p>
			<p>'Ten years ago I was a clergyman of the Church of England. I had just been presented to a living in Worthing. It was such an attractive church, not old, but <i>very</i> beautifully decorated, six candles on the altar, Reservation in the Lady Chapel, and an excellent heating apparatus which burned coke in a little shed by the sacristy door; no graveyard, just a hedge of golden privet between the church and the rectory.</p>
			<p>'As soon as I moved in my mother came to keep house for me. She bought some chintz, out of her own money, for the drawing-room curtains. She used to be "at home" once a week to the ladies of the congregation. One of them, the dentist's wife, gave me a set of the <i>Encyclopaedia Britannica</i> for my study. It was all very pleasant until my <i>Doubts</i> began.'</p>
			<p>'Were they as bad as all that?' asked Paul.</p>
			<p>'They were insuperable,' said Mr Prendergast, 'that is why I am here now. But I expect I am boring you?'</p>
			<p>'No, do go on. That's to say, unless you find it painful to think about.'</p>
			<p>'I think about it all the time. It happened like this, quite suddenly. We had been there about three months, and my mother had made great friends with some people called Bundle—rather a curious name. I think he was an insurance agent until he retired. Mrs Bundle used very kindly to ask us in to supper on Sundays after Evensong. They were pleasant, informal gatherings, and I used quite to look forward to them. I can see them now as they sat there on this particular evening; there was my mother and Mr and Mrs Bundle, and their son, rather a spotty boy, I remember, who used to go in to Brighton College by train every day, and Mrs Bundle's mother, a Mrs Crump, rather deaf, but a very good Churchwoman, and Mrs Abel—that was the name of the dentist's wife who gave me the <i>Encyclopaedia Britannica</i>—and old Major Ending, the people's warden. I had preached two sermons that day besides taking the children's Bible-class in the afternoon, and I had rather dropped out of the conversation. They were all talking away quite happily about the preparations that were being made on the pier for the summer season, when suddenly, for no reason at all, my <i>Doubts</i> began.' He paused, and Paul felt constrained to offer some expression of sympathy.</p>
			<p>'What a terrible thing!' he said.</p>
			<p>'Yes, I've not known an hour's real happiness since. You see, it wasn't the ordinary sort of Doubt about Cain's wife or the Old Testament miracles or the consecration of Archbishop Parker. I'd been taught how to explain all those while I was at college. No, it was something deeper than all that. <i>I couldn't understand why God had made the world at all</i>. There was my mother and the Bundles and Mrs Crump talking away quite unconcernedly while I sat there wrestling with this sudden assault of doubt. You see how fundamental that is. Once granted the first step, I can see that everything else follows—Tower of Babel, Babylonian captivity, Incarnation, Church, bishops, incense, everything—but what I couldn't see, and what I can't see now, is, <i>why</i> did it all begin?</p>
			<p>'I asked my bishop; he didn't know. He said that he didn't think the point really arose as far as my practical duties as a parish priest were concerned. I discussed it with my mother. At first she was inclined to regard it as a passing phase. But it didn't pass, so finally she agreed with me that the only honourable thing to do was to resign my living; she never really recovered from the shock, poor old lady! It was a great blow after she had bought the chintz and got so friendly with the Bundles.'</p>
			<p>A bell began ringing down a distant passage.</p>
			<p>'Well, well, we must go to prayers, and I haven't finished my pipes.' He took his gown from the peg behind the door and slipped it over his shoulders.</p>
			<p>'Perhaps one day I shall see Light,' he said, 'and then I shall go back to the ministry. Meanwhile—'</p>
			<p>Clutterbuck ran past the door, whistling hideously.</p>
			<p>'That's a nasty little boy,' said Mr Prendergast, 'if ever there was one.'</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
