<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Captain Grimes</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Paul had very little difficulty in finding the dining-hall. He was guided there by the smell of cooking and the sound of voices. It was a large, panelled room, far from disagreeable, with fifty or sixty boys of ages ranging from ten to eighteen settled along four long tables. The smaller ones wore Eton suits, the elder ones dinner-jackets.</p>
			<p>He was led to a place at the head of one of the tables. The boys on either side of him stood up very politely until he sat down. One of them was the boy who had whistled at Captain Grimes. Paul thought he rather liked him.</p>
			<p>‘I’m called Beste-Chetwynde,’ he said.</p>
			<p>‘I’ve got to teach you the organ, I believe.’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, it’s great fun: we play in the village church. Do you play terribly well?’</p>
			<p>Paul felt this was not a moment for candour, and so, ‘tempering discretion with deceit’, he said, ‘Yes, remarkably well.’</p>
			<p>‘I say, do you really, or are you rotting?’</p>
			<p>‘Indeed, I’m not. I used to give lessons to the Master of Scone.’</p>
			<p>‘Well, you won’t be able to teach me much,’ said Beste-Chetwynde cheerfully. ‘I only do it to get off gym. I say, they haven’t given you a napkin. These servants are too awful. Philbrick,’ he shouted to the butler, ‘why haven’t you given Mr. Pennyfeather a napkin?’</p>
			<p>‘Forgot,’ said Philbrick, ‘and it’s too late now because Miss Fagan’s locked the linen up.’</p>
			<p>‘Nonsense!’ said Beste-Chetwynde, ‘go and get one at once. That man’s all right, really,’ he added, ‘only he wants watching.’</p>
			<p>In a few minutes Philbrick returned with the napkin.</p>
			<p>‘It seems to me that you’re a remarkably intelligent boy,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Captain Grimes doesn’t think so. He says I’m half-witted. I’m glad you’re not like Captain Grimes. He’s so common, don’t you think?’</p>
			<p>‘You mustn’t talk about the other masters like that in front of me.’</p>
			<p>‘Well, that’s what we all think about him, anyway. What’s more, he wears combinations. I saw it in his washing-book one day when I was fetching him his hat. I think combinations are rather awful, don’t you?’</p>
			<p>There was a commotion at the end of the hall.</p>
			<p>‘I expect that’s Clutterbuck being sick,’ said Beste-Chetwynde. ‘He’s usually sick when we have mutton.’</p>
			<p>The boy on Paul’s other side now spoke for the first time.</p>
			<p>‘Mr. Prendergast wears a wig,’ he said, and then became very confused and subsided into a giggle.</p>
			<p>‘That’s Briggs,’ said Beste-Chetwynde, ‘only everyone calls him Brolly, because of the shop, you know.’</p>
			<p>‘They’re silly rotters,’ said Briggs.</p>
			<p>All this was a great deal easier than Paul had expected; it didn’t seem so very hard to get on with boys, after all.</p>
			<p>After a time they all stood up, and amid considerable noise Mr. Prendergast said grace. Someone called out ‘Prendy!’ very loudly just by Paul’s ear.</p>
			<p>‘… <i>per Christum Dominum nostrum. Amen</i>,’ said Mr. Prendergast. ‘Beste-Chetwynde, was that you who made that noise?’</p>
			<p>‘Me, sir? No, sir.’</p>
			<p>‘Pennyfeather, did Beste-Chetwynde make that noise?’</p>
			<p>‘No, I don’t think so,’ said Paul, and Beste-Chetwynde gave him a friendly look, because, as a matter of fact, he had.</p>
			<p>Captain Grimes linked arms with him outside the dining-hall.</p>
			<p>‘Filthy meal, isn’t it, old boy?’ he said.</p>
			<p>‘Pretty bad,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Prendy’s on duty tonight. I’m off to the pub. How about you?’</p>
			<p>‘All right,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Prendy’s not so bad in his way,’ said Grimes, ‘but he can’t keep order. Of course, you know he wears a wig. Very hard for a man with a wig to keep order. I’ve got a false leg, but that’s different. Boys respect that. Think I lost it in the war. Actually,’ said the Captain, ‘and strictly between ourselves, mind, I was run over by a tram in Stoke-on-Trent when I was one-over-the-eight. Still, it doesn’t do to let that out to everyone. Funny thing, but I feel I can trust you. I think we’re going to be pals.’</p>
			<p>‘I hope so,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘I’ve been feeling the need of a pal for some time. The bloke before you wasn’t bad⁠—a bit stand-offish, though. He had a motor-bike, you see. The daughters of the house didn’t care for him. Have you met Miss Fagan?’</p>
			<p>‘I’ve met two.’</p>
			<p>‘They’re both bitches,’ said Grimes, and added moodily, ‘I’m engaged to be married to Flossie.’</p>
			<p>‘Good God! Which is she?’</p>
			<p>‘The elder. The boys call them Flossie and Dingy. We haven’t told the old boy yet. I’m waiting till I land in the soup again. Then I shall play that as my last card. I generally get into the soup sooner or later. Here’s the pub. Not such a bad little place in its way. Clutterbuck’s father makes all the beer round here. Not bad stuff, either. Two pints, please, Mrs. Roberts!’</p>
			<p>In the further corner sat Philbrick, talking volubly in Welsh to a shady-looking old man.</p>
			<p>‘Damned cheek his coming in here!’ said Grimes.</p>
			<p>Mrs. Roberts brought them their beer. Grimes took a long draught and sighed happily.</p>
			<p>‘This looks like being the first end of term I’ve seen for two years,’ he said dreamily. ‘Funny thing, I can always get on all right for about six weeks, and then I land in the soup. I don’t believe I was ever meant by Nature to be a schoolmaster. Temperament,’ said Grimes, with a far-away look in his eyes⁠—‘that’s been my trouble, temperament and sex.’</p>
			<p>‘Is it quite easy to get another job after⁠—after you’ve been in the soup?’ asked Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Not at first, it isn’t, but there’re ways. Besides, you see, I’m a public-school man. That means everything. There’s a blessed equity in the English social system,’ said Grimes, ‘that ensures the public-school man against starvation. One goes through four or five years of perfect hell at an age when life is bound to be hell, anyway, and after that the social system never lets one down.</p>
			<p>‘Not that I stood four or five years of it, mind; I got the push soon after my sixteenth birthday. But my house-master was a public-school man. He knew the system. “Grimes,” he said, “I can’t keep you in the House after what has happened. I have the other boys to consider. But I don’t want to be too hard on you. I want you to start again.” So he sat down there and then and wrote me a letter of recommendation to any future employer, a corking good letter, too. I’ve got it still. It’s been very useful at one time or another. That’s the public-school system all over. They may kick you out, but they never let you down.</p>
			<p>‘I subscribed a guinea to the War Memorial Fund. I felt I owed it to them. I was really sorry,’ said Grimes, ‘that that cheque never got through.</p>
			<p>‘After that I went into business. Uncle of mine had a brush factory at Edmonton. Doing pretty well before the war. That put the lid on the brush trade for me. You’re too young to have been in the war, I suppose? Those were days, old boy. We shan’t see the like of them again. I don’t suppose I was really sober for more than a few hours for the whole of that war. Then I got into the soup again, pretty badly that time. Happened over in France. They said, “Now, Grimes, you’ve got to behave like a gentleman. We don’t want a court-martial in this regiment. We’re going to leave you alone for half an hour. There’s your revolver. You know what to do. Goodbye, old man,” they said quite affectionately.</p>
			<p>‘Well, I sat there for some time looking at that revolver. I put it up to my head twice, but each time I brought it down again. “Public school men don’t end like this,” I said to myself. It was a long half hour, but luckily they had left a decanter of whisky in there with me. They’d all had a few, I think. That’s what made them all so solemn. There wasn’t much whisky left when they came back, and, what with that and the strain of the situation, I could only laugh when they came in. Silly thing to do, but they looked so surprised, seeing me there alive and drunk.</p>
			<p>‘ “The man’s a cad,” said the colonel, but even then I couldn’t stop laughing, so they put me under arrest and called a court-martial.</p>
			<p>‘I must say I felt pretty low next day. A major came over from another battalion to try my case. He came to see me first, and bless me if it wasn’t a cove I’d known at school.</p>
			<p>‘ “God bless my soul,” he said, “if it isn’t Grimes of Podger’s! What’s all this nonsense about a court-martial?” So I told him. “H’m,” he said, “pretty bad. Still it’s out of the question to shoot an old Harrovian. I’ll see what I can do about it.” And next day I was sent to Ireland on a pretty cushy job connected with postal service. That saw me out as far as the war was concerned. You can’t get into the soup in Ireland, do what you like. I don’t know if all this bores you?’</p>
			<p>‘Not at all,’ said Paul. ‘I think it’s most encouraging.’</p>
			<p>‘I’ve been in the soup pretty often since then, but never quite so badly. Someone always turns up and says, “I can’t see a public-school man down and out. Let me put you on your feet again.” I should think,’ said Grimes, ‘I’ve been put on my feet more often than any living man.’</p>
			<p>Philbrick came across the bar parlour towards them.</p>
			<p>‘Feeling onlely?’ he said. I’ve been talking to the station-master here, and if either of you ever wants an introduction to a young lady⁠—’</p>
			<p>‘Certainly not,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Oh, all right,’ said Philbrick, making off.</p>
			<p>‘Women are an enigma,’ said Grimes, ‘as far as Grimes is concerned.’</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
