<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIII: The Passing of a Public School Man</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">The Passing of a Public School Man</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Six days later the school was given a half-holiday, and soon after luncheon the bigamous union of Captain Edgar Grimes and Miss Florence Selina Fagan was celebrated at the Llanabba Parish Church. A slight injury to his hand prevented Paul from playing the organ. He walked down the church with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast, who, greatly to his dismay, had been instructed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Fagan to give away the bride.</p>
			<p>“I do not intend to be present,” said the Doctor. “The whole business is exceedingly painful to me.” Everybody else, however, was there except little Lord Tangent, whose foot was being amputated at a local nursing home. The boys for the most part welcomed the event as a pleasant variation to the rather irregular routine of their day. Clutterbuck alone seemed disposed to sulk.</p>
			<p>“I don’t suppose that their children will be terribly attractive,” said Beste-Chetwynde.</p>
			<p>There were few wedding presents. The boys had subscribed a shilling each and had bought at a shop in Llandudno a silver-plated teapot, coyly suggestive of art nouveau. The Doctor gave them a cheque for twenty-five pounds. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast gave Grimes a walking stick⁠—“because he was always borrowing mine”⁠—and Dingy, rather generously, two photograph frames, a calendar, and a tray of Benares brassware. Paul was the best man.</p>
			<p>The service passed off without a hitch, for Grimes’ Irish wife did not turn up to forbid the banns. Flossie wore a frock of a rather noticeable velveteen and a hat with two pink feathers to match.</p>
			<p>“I was so pleased when I found he didn’t want me to wear white,” she said, “though, of course, it might have been dyed afterwards.”</p>
			<p>Both bride and bridegroom spoke up well in the responses, and afterwards the Vicar delivered a very moving address on the subject of Home and Conjugal Love.</p>
			<p>“How beautiful it is,” he said, “to see two young people in the hope of youth setting out with the Church’s blessing to face life together; how much more beautiful to see them when they have grown to full manhood and womanhood coming together and saying ‘Our experience of life has taught us that <em>one</em> is not enough.’ ”</p>
			<p>The boys lined the path from the churchdoor to the lychgate, and the head prefect said: “Three cheers for Captain and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Grimes!”</p>
			<p>Then they returned to the Castle. The honeymoon had been postponed until the end of term, ten days later, and the arrangements for the first days of their married life were a little meagre. “You must do the best you can,” the Doctor had said. “I suppose you will wish to share the same bedroom. I think there would be no objection to your both moving into the large room in the West Tower. It is a little damp, but I daresay Diana will arrange for a fire to be lighted there. You may use the morning-room in the evenings, and Captain Grimes will of course have his meals at my table in the dining-room, not with the boys. I do not wish to find him sitting about in the drawing-room, nor, of course, in my library. He had better keep his books and gown in the Common Room, as before. Next term I will consider some other arrangement. Perhaps I could hand over one of the lodges to you or fit up some sort of sitting-room in the tower. I was not prepared for a domestic upheaval.”</p>
			<p>Diana, who was really coming out of the business rather creditably, put a bowl of flowers in their bedroom, and lit a fire of reckless proportions, in which she consumed the remains of a desk and two of the boys’ play-boxes.</p>
			<p>That evening, while <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast was taking “Prep.” at the end of the passage, Grimes visited Paul in the Common Room. He looked rather uncomfortable in his evening clothes.</p>
			<p>“Well, dinner’s over,” he said. “The old man does himself pretty well.”</p>
			<p>“How are you feeling?”</p>
			<p>“Not too well, old boy. The first days are always a strain, they say, even in the most romantic marriages. My father-in-law is <em>not</em> what you might call easy. Needs thawing gently, you know. I suppose as a married man I oughtn’t to go down to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Roberts?”</p>
			<p>“I think it might seem odd on the first evening; don’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Flossie’s playing the piano; Dingy’s making up the accounts; the old man’s gone off to the library. Don’t you think we’ve time for a quick one?”</p>
			<p>Arm in arm they went down the familiar road.</p>
			<p>“Drinks are on me tonight,” said Grimes.</p>
			<p>The silver band were still sitting with their heads together discussing the division of their earnings.</p>
			<p>“They tell me that married this afternoon you were?” said the stationmaster.</p>
			<p>“That’s right,” said Grimes.</p>
			<p>“And my sister never at all you would meet whatever,” he continued reproachfully.</p>
			<p>“Look here, old boy,” said Grimes, “just you shut up. You’re not being tactful. See? Just you keep quiet, and I’ll give you all some nice beer.”</p>
			<p>When <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Roberts shut her doors for the night, Paul and Grimes turned back up the hill. A light was burning in the West Tower.</p>
			<p>“There she is, waiting for me,” said Grimes. “Now it might be a very romantic sight to some chaps, a light burning in a tower window. I knew a poem about a thing like that once. Forget it now, though. I was no end of a one for poetry when I was a kid⁠—love and all that. Castle towers came in quite a lot. Funny how one grows out of that sort of thing.”</p>
			<p>Inside the Castle he turned off down the main corridor.</p>
			<p>“Well, so long, old boy! This is the way I go now. See you in the morning.” The baize door swung to behind him, and Paul went up to bed.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Paul saw little of Grimes during the next few days. They met at prayers and on the way to and from their classrooms, but the baize door that separated the school from the Doctor’s wing was also separating them. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast, now in unchallenged possession of the other easy chair, was smoking away one evening when he suddenly said:</p>
			<p>“You know, I miss Grimes. I didn’t think I should, but I do. With all his faults, he was a very cheery person. I think I was beginning to get on better with him.”</p>
			<p>“He doesn’t look as cheery as he did,” said Paul. “I don’t believe that life ‘above stairs’ is suiting him very well.”</p>
			<p>As it happened, Grimes chose that evening to visit them.</p>
			<p>“D’you chaps mind if I come in for a bit?” he asked with unwonted diffidence. They rose to welcome him. “Sure you don’t mind? I won’t stay long.”</p>
			<p>“My dear man, we were just saying how much we missed you. Come and sit down.”</p>
			<p>“Won’t you have some of my tobacco?” said Prendergast.</p>
			<p>“Thanks, Prendy! I just had to come in and have a chat. I’ve been feeling pretty fed up lately. Married life is <em>not</em> all beer and skittles, I don’t mind telling you. It’s not Flossie, mind; she’s been hardly any trouble at all. In a way I’ve got quite to like her. She likes me, anyway, and that’s the great thing. The Doctor’s my trouble. He never lets me alone, that man. It gets on my nerves. Always laughing at me in a nasty kind of way and making me feel small. You know the way Lady Circumference talks to the Clutterbucks⁠—like that. I tell you I simply dread going into meals in that dining-room. He’s got a sort of air as though he always knew exactly what I was going to say before I said it, and as if it was always a little worse than he’d expected. Flossie says he treats <em>her</em> that way sometimes. He does it to me the whole time, damn him.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t expect he means it,” said Paul, “and anyway I shouldn’t bother about it.”</p>
			<p>“That’s the point. I’m beginning to feel he’s quite right. I suppose I am a pretty coarse sort of chap. I don’t know anything about art, and I haven’t met any grand people, and I don’t go to a good tailor, and all that. I’m not what he calls ‘out of the top drawer.’ I never pretended I was, but the thing is that up till now it hasn’t worried me. I don’t think I was a conceited sort of chap, but I felt just as good as anyone else, and I didn’t care what people thought as long as I had my fun. And I <em>did</em> have fun, too, and, what’s more, I enjoyed it. But now I’ve lived with that man for a week, I feel quite different. I feel half ashamed of myself all the time. And I’ve come to recognize that supercilious look he gives me in other people’s eyes as well.”</p>
			<p>“Ah, how well I know that feeling!” sighed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast.</p>
			<p>“I used to think I was popular among the boys, but you know I’m not, and at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Roberts’s they only pretended to like me in the hope I’d stand ’em drinks. I did too, but they never gave me one back. I thought it was just because they were Welsh, but I see now it was because they despised me. I don’t blame them. God knows I despise myself. You know, I used to use French phrases a certain amount⁠—things like savoir faire and je ne sais quoi. I never thought about it, but I suppose I haven’t got much of an accent. How could I? I’ve never been in France except for that war. Well, every time I say one of them now the Doctor gives a sort of wince as if he’s bitten on a bad tooth. I have to think the whole time now before I say anything, to see if there’s any French in it or any of the expressions he doesn’t think refined. Then when I do say anything my voice sounds so funny that I get in a muddle and he winces again. Old boy, it’s been hell this last week, and it’s worrying me. I’m getting an inferiority-complex. Dingy’s like that. She just never speaks now. He’s always making little jokes about Flossie’s clothes, too, but I don’t think the old girl sees what’s he’s driving at. That man’ll have me crazy before the term’s over.”</p>
			<p>“Well, there’s only a week more,” was all that Paul could say to comfort him.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Next morning at prayers Grimes handed Paul a letter. “Irony,” he said.</p>
			<p>Paul opened it and read:</p>
			<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">
				<header>
					<p>John Clutterbuck &amp; Sons<br/>
					Wholesale Brewers and Wine Merchants</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:salutation">My Dear Grimes:</p>
				</header>
				<p>The other day at the sports you asked whether there was by any chance a job open for you at the brewery. I don’t know if you were serious in this, but if you were a post has just fallen vacant which I feel might suit you. I should be glad to offer it to any friend who has been so kind to Percy. We employ a certain number of travellers to go round to various inns and hotels to sample the beer and see that it has not been diluted or in any way adulterated. Our junior traveller, who was a friend of mine from Cambridge, has just developed <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">D.T.</abbr>’s and has had to be suspended. The salary is two hundred a year with car and travelling expenses. Would this attract you at all? If so, will you let me know during the next few days.</p>
				<footer>
					<p epub:type="z3998:valediction">Yours sincerely,</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:sender z3998:signature">Sam Clutterbuck.</p>
				</footer>
			</blockquote>
			<p>“Just look at that,” said Grimes. “God’s own job, and mine for the asking! If that had come ten days ago my whole life might have been different.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t think of taking it now?”</p>
			<p>“Too late, old boy, too late. The saddest words in the English language.”</p>
			<p>In “break” Grimes said to Paul: “Look here, I’ve decided to take Sam Clutterbuck’s job, and be damned to the Fagans!” His eyes shone with excitement. “I shan’t say a word to them. I shall just go off. They can do what they like about it. I don’t care.”</p>
			<p>“Splendid!” said Paul. “It’s much the best thing you can do.”</p>
			<p>“I’m going this very afternoon,” said Grimes.</p>
			<p>An hour later, at the end of morning-school, they met again. “I’ve been thinking over that letter,” said Grimes. “I see it all now. It’s just a joke.”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense!” said Paul. “I’m sure it isn’t. Go and see the Clutterbucks right away.”</p>
			<p>“No, no, they don’t mean it seriously. They’ve heard about my marriage from Percy, and they’re just pulling my leg. It was too good to be true. Why should they offer <em>me</em> a job like that, even if such a wonderful job exists?”</p>
			<p>“My dear Grimes, I’m perfectly certain it was a genuine offer. Anyway, there’s nothing to lose by going to see them.”</p>
			<p>“No, no, it’s too late, old boy. Things like that don’t happen.” And he disappeared beyond the baize door.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Next day there was fresh trouble at Llanabba. Two men in stout boots, bowler hats and thick grey overcoats presented themselves at the Castle with a warrant for Philbrick’s arrest. Search was made for him, but it was suddenly discovered that he had already left by the morning train for Holyhead. The boys crowded round the detectives with interest and a good deal of disappointment. They were not, they thought, particularly impressive figures as they stood in the hall fingering their hats and drinking whisky and calling Dingy “miss.”</p>
			<p>“We’ve been after ’im for some time now,” said the first detective. “Ain’t we, Bill?”</p>
			<p>“Pretty near six months. It’s too bad, his getting away like this. They’re getting rather restless at <abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">H.Q.</abbr> about our travelling expenses.”</p>
			<p>“Is it a very serious case?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast. The entire school were by this time assembled in the hall. “Not shooting or anything like that?”</p>
			<p>“No, there ain’t been no bloodshed up to date, sir. I oughtn’t to tell about it, really, but seeing as you’ve all been mixed up in it to some extent, I don’t mind telling you that I think he’ll get off on a plea of insanity. Loopy, you know.”</p>
			<p>“What’s he been up to?”</p>
			<p>“False pretences and impersonation, sir. There’s five charges against him in different parts of the country, mostly at hotels. He represents himself as a rich man, stays there for some time living like a lord, cashes a big cheque and then goes off. Calls ’isself Sir Solomon Philbrick. Funny thing is, I think he really believes his tale ’isself. I’ve come across several cases like that one time or another. There was a bloke in Somerset what thought ’e was Bishop of Bath and Wells and confirmed a whole lot of kids⁠—very reverent, too.”</p>
			<p>“Well, anyway,” said Dingy, “he went without his wages from here.”</p>
			<p>“I always felt there was something untrustworthy about that man,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast.</p>
			<p>“Lucky devil!” said Grimes despondently.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“I’m worried about Grimes,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast that evening. “I never saw a man more changed. He used to be so self-confident and self-assertive. He came in here quite timidly just now and asked me whether I believed that Divine retribution took place in this world or the next. I began to talk to him about it, but I could see he wasn’t listening. He sighed once or twice and then went out without a word while I was still speaking.”</p>
			<p>“Beste-Chetwynde tells me he has kept in the whole of the third form because the blackboard fell down in his classroom this morning. He was convinced they had arranged it on purpose.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, they often do.”</p>
			<p>“But in this case they hadn’t. Beste-Chetwynde said they were quite frightened at the way he spoke to them. Just like an actor, Beste-Chetwynde said.”</p>
			<p>“Poor Grimes! I think he is seriously unnerved. It will be a relief when the holidays come.”</p>
			<p>But Captain Grimes’ holiday came sooner than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Prendergast expected, and in a way which few people could have foreseen. Three days later he did not appear at morning prayers, and Flossie, red-eyed, admitted that he had not come in from the village the night before. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Davies, the stationmaster, confessed to seeing him earlier in the evening in a state of depression. Just before luncheon a youth presented himself at the Castle with a little pile of clothes he had found on the seashore. They were identified without difficulty as having belonged to the Captain. In the breast pocket of the jacket was an envelope addressed to the Doctor, and in it a slip of paper inscribed with the words: “<b>Those that live by the flesh shall perish by the flesh.</b>”</p>
			<p>As far as was possible this intelligence was kept from the boys.</p>
			<p>Flossie, though severely shocked at this untimely curtailment of her married life, was firm in her resolution not to wear mourning. “I don’t think my husband would have expected it of me,” she said.</p>
			<p>In these distressing circumstances the boys began packing their boxes to go away for the Easter holidays.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
