<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Post Mortem</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>As the last car drove away the Doctor and his daughters and Paul and Grimes walked up the drive together towards the Castle.</p>
			<p>“Frankly the day has been rather a disappointment to me,” said the Doctor. “Nothing seemed to go quite right in spite of all our preparations.”</p>
			<p>“And expense,” said Dingy.</p>
			<p>“I am sorry, too, that Mr. Prendergast should have had that unfortunate disagreement with Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde’s coloured friend. In all the ten years during which we have worked together I have never known Mr. Prendergast so self-assertive. It was <i>not</i> becoming of him. Nor was it Philbrick’s place to join in. I was seriously alarmed. They seemed so angry, and all about some minor point of ecclesiastical architecture.”</p>
			<p>“Mr. Cholmondley was very sensitive,” said Flossie.</p>
			<p>“Yes, he seemed to think that Mr. Prendergast’s insistence on the late development of the rood-screen was in some way connected with colour-prejudice. I wonder why that was? To my mind it showed a very confused line of thought. Still, it would have been more seemly if Mr. Prendergast had let the matter drop, and what could Philbrick know of the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Philbrick is not an ordinary butler,” said Dingy.</p>
			<p>“No, indeed not,” said the Doctor. “I heartily deplore his jewellery.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t like Lady Circumference’s speech,” said Flossie. “Did you?”</p>
			<p>“I did not,” said the Doctor, “nor, I think, did Mrs. Clutterbuck. I thought her reference to the Five Furlong race positively brutal. I was glad Clutterbuck had done so well in the jumping yesterday.”</p>
			<p>“She rather wanders from the point, doesn’t she?” said Dingy. “All that about hunting, I mean.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think Lady Circumference is conscious of any definite divisions in the various branches of sport. I have often observed in women of her type a tendency to regard all athletics as inferior forms of fox-hunting. It is <i>not</i> logical. Besides, she was nettled at some remark of Mr. Cholmondley’s about cruelty to animals. As you say, it was irrelevant and rather unfortunate. I also resented the references to the Liberal party. Mr. Clutterbuck has stood three times, you know. Taken as a whole, it was <i>not</i> a happy speech. I was quite glad when I saw her drive away.”</p>
			<p>“What a pretty car Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde has got!” said Flossie, “but how ostentatious of her to bring a footman.”</p>
			<p>“I can forgive the footman,” said Dingy, “but I can’t forgive Mr. Cholmondley. He asked me whether I had ever heard of a writer called Thomas Hardy.”</p>
			<p>“He asked <i>me</i> to go to Reigate with him for the weekend,” said Flossie, “… in rather a sweet way, too.”</p>
			<p>“Florence, I trust you refused?”</p>
			<p>“Oh yes,” said Flossie sadly, “I refused.”</p>
			<p>They went on up the drive in silence. Presently Dingy asked: “What are we going to do about those fireworks you insisted on buying? Everyone has gone away.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t feel in a mood for fireworks,” said the Doctor. “Perhaps another time, but not now.”</p>
			<p>Back in the Common Room, Paul and Grimes subsided moodily into the two easy-chairs. The fire, unattended since luncheon, had sunk to a handful of warm ashes.</p>
			<p>“Well, old boy,” said Grimes, “so that’s over.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>“All the gay throng melted away?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>“Back to the daily round and cloistral calm?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>“As a beano,” said Grimes, “I have known better.”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>“Lady C.’s hardly what you might call bonhomous.”</p>
			<p>“Hardly.”</p>
			<p>“Old Prendy made rather an ass of himself?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Hullo, old boy! You sound a bit flat. Feeling the strain of the social vortex, a bit giddy after the gay wheel, eh?”</p>
			<p>“I say, Grimes,” said Paul, “what d’you suppose the relationship is between Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde and that nigger?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t suppose she trots round with him just for the uplift of his conversation, do you?”</p>
			<p>“No, I suppose not.”</p>
			<p>“In fact, I don’t mind diagnosing a simple case of good old sex.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I suppose you’re right.”</p>
			<p>“I’m sure of it. Great Scott, what’s that noise?”</p>
			<p>It was Mr. Prendergast.</p>
			<p>“Prendy, old man,” said Grimes, “you’ve let down the morale of the Common Room a pretty good wallop.”</p>
			<p>“Damn the Common Room!” said Mr. Prendergast. “What does the Common Room know about rood-screens?”</p>
			<p>“That’s all right, old boy. We’re all friends here. What you say about rood-screens goes.”</p>
			<p>“They’ll be questioning the efficacy of infant baptism next. The Church has never countenanced lay opinion on spiritual matters. Now if it were a question of food and drink,” said Mr. Prendergast, “if it were a question of drink⁠—But not infant baptism. Just drink.” And he sat down.</p>
			<p>“A sad case, brother,” said Grimes, “truly a sad case. Prendy, do you realize that in two minutes the bell will go for Prep. and you’re oh duty?”</p>
			<p>“Ding, dong, dell! Pussy’s in the well.”</p>
			<p>“Prendy, that’s irrelevant.”</p>
			<p>“I know several songs about bells. Funeral bells, wedding bells, sacring bells, sheep-bells, fire-bells, door-bells, dumb-bells and just plain bells.”</p>
			<p>Paul and Grimes looked at each other sadly.</p>
			<p>“It seems to me,” said Paul, “that one of us will have to take Prep. for him tonight.”</p>
			<p>“No, no, old boy; that’ll be all right,” said Grimes. “You and I are off to Mrs. Roberts’. Prendy gives me a thirst.”</p>
			<p>“But we can’t leave him like this.”</p>
			<p>“He’ll be all right. The little beasts can’t make any more noise than they do usually.”</p>
			<p>“You don’t think the old man will find him?”</p>
			<p>“Not a chance.”</p>
			<p>The bell rang. Mr. Prendergast jumped to his feet, straightened his wig and steadied himself gravely against the chimney-piece.</p>
			<p>“There’s a good chap,” said Grimes gently. “Just you trot down the passage to the little boys and have a good nap.”</p>
			<p>Singing quietly to himself, Mr. Prendergast sauntered down the passage.</p>
			<p>“I hope he’s none the worse for this,” said Grimes. “You know, I feel quite fatherly towards old Prendy. He did give it to that blackamoor about Church architecture, bless him.”</p>
			<p>Arm in arm they went down the main avenue towards the inn.</p>
			<p>“Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde asked me to call on her in London,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>“Did she? Well, just you go. I’ve never been much of a one for society and the smart set myself, but if you like that sort of thing, Mrs. Beste-Chetwynde is the goods all right. Never open a paper but there’s a photograph of her at some place or other.”</p>
			<p>“Does she photograph well?” asked Paul. “I should rather think that she would.”</p>
			<p>Grimes looked at him narrowly. “Fair to middling. Why the sudden interest?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I don’t know. I was just wondering.”</p>
			<p>At Mrs. Roberts’ they found the Llanabba Silver Band chattering acrimoniously over the division of the spoils.</p>
			<p>“All the afternoon the band I have led in <i>Men of Harlech</i> and sacred music too look you and they will not give me a penny more than themselves whatever. The college gentleman whatever if it is right I ask,” said the station-master, “me with a sister-in-law to support too look you.”</p>
			<p>“Now don’t bother, old boy,” said Grimes, “because, if you do, I’ll tell your pals about the extra pound you got out of the Doctor.”</p>
			<p>The discussion was resumed in Welsh, but it was clear that the station-master was slowly giving way.</p>
			<p>“That’s settled him all right. Take my tip, old boy, never get mixed up in a Welsh wrangle. It doesn’t end in blows, like an Irish one, but goes on for ever. They’ll still be discussing that three pounds at the end of term; just you see.”</p>
			<p>“Has Mr. Beste-Chetwynde been dead long?” asked Paul.</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t say so; why?”</p>
			<p>“I was just wondering.”</p>
			<p>They sat for some time smoking in silence.</p>
			<p>“If Beste-Chetwynde is fifteen,” said Paul, “that doesn’t necessarily make her more than thirty-three, does it?”</p>
			<p>“Old boy,” said Grimes, “you’re in love.”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense!”</p>
			<p>“Smitten?” said Grimes.</p>
			<p>“No, no.”</p>
			<p>“The tender passion?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Cupid’s jolly little darts?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“Spring fancies, love’s young dream?”</p>
			<p>“Nonsense!”</p>
			<p>“Not even a quickening of the pulse?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“A sweet despair?”</p>
			<p>“Certainly not.”</p>
			<p>“A trembling hope?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“A <i>frisson</i>? a <i>Je ne sais quoi</i>?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing of the sort.”</p>
			<p>“Liar!” said Grimes.</p>
			<p>There was another long pause. “Grimes,” said Paul at length, “I wonder if you can be right?”</p>
			<p>“Sure of it, old boy. Just you go in and win. Here’s to the happy pair! May all your troubles be little ones.”</p>
			<p>In a state of mind totally new to him, Paul accompanied Grimes back to the Castle. Prep. was over. Mr. Prendergast was leaning against the fire-place with a contented smile on his face.</p>
			<p>“Hullo, Prendy, old wine-skin! How are things with you?”</p>
			<p>“Admirable,” said Mr. Prendergast. “I have never known them better. I have just caned twenty-three boys.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
