<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-1" id="chapter-1-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p epub:type="title">Conduct</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Sitting over the Common Room fire that afternoon waiting for the bell for tea, Paul found himself reflecting that on the whole the last week had not been quite as awful as he had expected. As Beste-Chetwynde had told him, he was a distinct success with his form; after the first day an understanding had been established between them. It was tacitly agreed that when Paul wished to read or to write letters he was allowed to do so undisturbed while he left them to employ the time as they thought best; when Paul took it upon him to talk to them about their lessons they remained silent, and when he set them work to do some of it was done. It had rained steadily, so that there had been no games. No punishments, no reprisals, no exertion, and in the evenings the confessions of Grimes, any one of which would have glowed with outstanding shamelessness from the appendix to a treatise in psychoanalysis.</p>
			<p>Mr. Prendergast came in with the post.</p>
			<p>“A letter for you, two for Grimes, nothing for me,” he said. “No one ever writes to me. There was a time when I used to get five or six letters a day, not counting circulars. My mother used to file them for me to answer⁠—one heap of charity appeals, another for personal letters, another for marriages and funerals, another for baptisms and churchings and another for anonymous abuse. I wonder why it is the clergy always get so many letters of that sort, sometimes from quite educated people. I remember my father had great trouble in that way once, and he was forced to call in the police because they became so threatening. And, do you know, it was the curate’s wife who had sent them⁠—such a quiet little woman. There’s your letter. Grimes’ look like bills. I can’t think why shops give that man credit at all. I always pay cash, or at least I should if I ever bought anything. But d’you know that, except for my tobacco and the <i>Daily News</i> and occasionally a little port when it’s very cold, I don’t think I’ve bought anything for two years. The last thing I bought was that walking stick. I got it at Shanklin, and Grimes uses it for beating the boys with. I hadn’t really meant to buy one, but I was there for the day⁠—two years this August⁠—and I went into the tobacconist’s to buy some tobacco. He hadn’t the sort I wanted, and I felt I couldn’t go without getting something, so I bought that. It cost one and six,” he added wistfully, “so I had no tea.”</p>
			<p>Paul took his letter. It had been forwarded from Onslow Square. On the flap were embossed the arms of Scone College. It was from one of his four friends.</p>
			<p class="noindent">
				<i>Scone College, F.C.R.<br/>
				Oxford</i>
				<br/>
			</p>
			<p class="noindent"><i>My Dear Pennyfeather</i> (it ran),</p>
			<p>
				<i>I need hardly tell you how distressed I was when I heard of your disastrous misfortune. It seems to me that a real injustice has been done to you. I have not heard the full facts of the case, but I was confirmed in my opinion by a very curious incident last evening. I was just going to bed when Digby-Vaine-Trumpington came into my rooms without knocking. He was smoking a cigar. I had never spoken to him before, as you know, and was very much surprised at his visit. He said: “I’m told you are a friend of Pennyfeather’s.” I said I was, and he said: “Well, I gather I’ve rather got him into a mess.” I said: “Yes,” and he said: “Well, will you apologize to him for me when you write?” I said I would. Then he said: “Look here, I’m told he’s rather poor. I thought of sending him some money⁠—£20 for sort of damages you know. It’s all I can spare at the moment. Wouldn’t it be a useful thing to do?” I fairly let him have it, I can tell you, and told him just what I thought of him for making such an insulting suggestion. I asked him how he dared treat a gentleman like that just because he wasn’t in his awful set. He seemed rather taken aback and said: “Well, all <i>my</i> friends spend all their time trying to get money out of me,” and went off.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>I bicycled over to St. Magnus’s at Little Bechley and took some rubbings of the brasses there. I wished you had been with me.</i>
			</p>
			<p class="noindent">
				<i>Yours,<br/>
				Arthur Potts.</i>
				<br/>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>P.S.⁠—I understand you are thinking of taking up educational work. It seems to me that the great problem of education is to train the moral perceptions, not merely to discipline the appetites. I cannot help thinking that it is in greater fastidiousness rather than in greater self-control that the future progress of the race lies. I shall be interested to hear what your experience has been over the matter. The chaplain does not agree with me in this. He says great sensibility usually leads to enervation of will. Let me know what you think.</i>
			</p>
			<p>“What do you think about that?” asked Paul, handing Mr. Prendergast the letter.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said after studying it carefully, “I think your friend is wrong about sensibility. It doesn’t do to rely on one’s own feelings, does it, not in anything?”</p>
			<p>“No, I mean about the money.”</p>
			<p>“Good gracious, Pennyfeather! I hope you are in no doubt about that. Accept it at once, of course.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a temptation.”</p>
			<p>“My dear boy, it would be a sin to refuse. Twenty pounds! Why, it takes me half a term to earn that.”</p>
			<p>The bell rang for tea. In the dining-hall Paul gave the letter to Grimes.</p>
			<p>“Shall I take that twenty pounds?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Take it? My God! I should think you would.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m not sure,” said Paul.</p>
			<p>He thought about it all through afternoon school, all the time he was dressing for dinner, and all through dinner. It was a severe struggle, but his early training was victorious.</p>
			<p>“If I take that money,” he said to himself, “I shall never know whether I have acted rightly or not. It would always be on my mind. If I refuse, I shall be sure of having done right. I shall look back upon my self-denial with exquisite self-approval. By refusing I can convince myself that, in spite of the unbelievable things that have been happening to me during the last ten days, I am still the same Paul Pennyfeather I have respected so long. It is a test-case of the durability of my ideals.”</p>
			<p>He tried to explain something of what he felt to Grimes as they sat in Mrs. Roberts’ bar parlour that evening.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid you’ll find my attitude rather difficult to understand,” he said. “I suppose it’s largely a matter of upbringing. There is every reason why I should take this money. Digby-Vaine-Trumpington is exceedingly rich, and if he keeps it, it will undoubtedly be spent on betting or on some deplorable debauch. Owing to his party I have suffered irreparable harm. My whole future is shattered, and I have directly lost one hundred and twenty pounds a year in scholarships and two hundred and fifty pounds a year allowance from my guardian. By any ordinary process of thought, the money is justly mine. But,” said Paul Pennyfeather, “there is my honour. For generations the British bourgeoisie have spoken of themselves as gentlemen, and by that they have meant, among other things, a self-respecting scorn of irregular perquisites. It is the quality that distinguishes the gentleman from both the artist and the aristocrat. Now I am a gentleman. I can’t help it: it’s born in me. I just can’t take that money.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m a gentleman too, old boy,” said Grimes, “and I was afraid you might feel like that, so I did my best for you and saved you from yourself.”</p>
			<p>“What d’you mean by that?”</p>
			<p>“Dear old boy, don’t be angry, but immediately after tea I sent off a wire to your friend Potts: <i>Tell Trumpington send money quick</i>, and signed it ‘<i>Pennyfeather</i>‘. I don’t mind lending you the bob till it comes, either.”</p>
			<p>“Grimes, you wretch!” said Paul, but, in spite of himself, he felt a great wave of satisfaction surge up within him. “We must have another drink on that.”</p>
			<p>“Good for you,” said Grimes, “and it’s on me this round.”</p>
			<p>“To the durability of ideals!” said Paul as he got his pint.</p>
			<p>“My word, what a mouthful!” said Grimes; “I can’t say that. Cheerioh!”</p>
			<p>Two days later came another letter from Arthur Potts:</p>
			<p class="noindent">
				<i>Dear Pennyfeather,</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>I enclose Trumpington’s cheque for £20. I am glad that my dealings with him are at an end. I cannot pretend to understand your attitude in this matter, but no doubt you are the best judge.</i>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>Stiggins is reading a paper to the O.S.C.U. on “Sex Repression and Religious Experience.” Everyone expects rather a row, because you know how keen Walton is on the mystical element, which I think Stiggins is inclined to discount.</i>
			</p>
			<p class="noindent">
				<i>Yours,<br/>
				Arthur Potts.</i>
				<br/>
			</p>
			<p>
				<i>There is a most interesting article in the <i>Educational Review</i> on the new methods that are being tried at the Innesborough High School to induce co-ordination of the senses. They put small objects into the children’s mouths and make them draw the shapes in red chalk. Have you tried this with your boys? I must say I envy you your opportunities. Are your colleagues enlightened?</i>
			</p>
			<p>“This same Potts,” said Grimes as he read the letter, “would appear to be something of a stinker. Still, we’ve got the doings. How about a binge?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Paul, “I think we ought to do something about one. I should like to ask Prendy too.”</p>
			<p>“Why, of course. It’s just what Prendy needs. He’s been looking awfully down in the mouth lately. Why shouldn’t we all go over to the Metropole at Cwmpryddyg for dinner one night? We shall have to wait until the old boy goes away, otherwise he’ll notice that there’s no one on duty.”</p>
			<p>Later in the day Paul suggested the plan to Mr. Prendergast.</p>
			<p>“Really, Pennyfeather,” he said, “I think that’s uncommonly kind of you. I hardly know what to say. Of course, I should love it. I can’t remember when I dined at an hotel last. Certainly not since the war. It <i>will</i> be a treat. My dear boy, I’m quite overcome.”</p>
			<p>And, much to Paul’s embarrassment, a tear welled up in each of Mr. Prendergast’s eyes, and coursed down his cheeks.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
