<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>V</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section data-parent="part-3" id="chapter-3-5" epub:type="chapter">
			<h3>CHAPTER V<br/>
			<i>The Passing of a Public School Man</i></h3>
			<p>A day or two later Paul again found himself next to Grimes in the quarry. When the warder was out of earshot Grimes said: ‘Old boy, I can’t stand this much longer. It just ain’t good enough.’</p>
			<p>‘I don’t see any way out,’ said Paul. ‘Anyway, it’s quite bearable. I’d as soon be here as at Llanabba.’</p>
			<p>‘Not so Grimes,’ said Grimes. ‘He just languishes in captivity, like the lark. It’s all right for you⁠—you like reading and thinking, and all that. Well, I’m different, you know. I like drink and a bit of fun, and chatting now and then to my pals. I’m a sociable chap. It’s turning me into a giddy machine, this life, and there’s an awful chaplain, who gives me the pip, who keeps butting in in a breezy kind of way and asking if I feel I’m “right with God”. Of course I’m not, and I tell him so. I can stand most sorts of misfortune, old boy, but I can’t stand repression. That was what broke me up at Llanabba, and it’s what’s going to break me up here, if I don’t look out for myself. It seems to me it’s time Grimes flitted off to another clime.’</p>
			<p>‘No one has ever succeeded in escaping from this prison,’ said Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Well, just you watch next time there’s a fog!’</p>
			<p>As luck would have it, there was a fog next day, a heavy impenetrable white mist which came up quite suddenly while they were at work, enveloping men and quarry in the way that mists do on Egdon Heath.</p>
			<p>‘Close up there,’ said the warder in charge. ‘Stop work and close up. Look out there, you idiot!’ for Grimes had stumbled over the field-telephone. ‘If you’ve broken it you’ll come up before the Governor tomorrow.’</p>
			<p>‘Hold this horse,’ said the other warder, handing the reins to Grimes.</p>
			<p>He stooped and began to collect the chains on which the men were strung for their march home. Grimes seemed to be having some difficulty with the horse, which was plunging and rearing further away from the squad. ‘Can’t you even hold a horse?’ said the warder. Suddenly Grimes, with remarkable agility considering his leg, was seen to be in the saddle riding away into the heath.</p>
			<p>‘Come back,’ roared the warder, ‘come back, or I’ll fire.’ He put his rifle to his shoulder and fired into the fog. ‘He’ll come back all right,’ he said. ‘No one ever gets away for long. He’ll get solitary confinement and No. 1 diet for this, poor fish.’</p>
			<p>No one seemed to be much disturbed by the incident, even when it was found that the field-telephone was disconnected.</p>
			<p>‘He hasn’t a hope,’ said the warder. ‘They often do that, just put down their tools sudden and cut and run. But they can’t get away in those clothes and with no money. We shall warn all the farms tonight. Sometimes they stays out hiding for several days, but back they comes when they’re hungry, or else they get arrested the moment they shows up in a village. I reckon it’s just nerves makes them try it.’</p>
			<p>That evening the horse came back, but there was no sign of Grimes. Special patrols were sent out with bloodhounds straining at their leashes, the farms and villages on the heath were warned, and the anxious inhabitants barred their doors closely and more pertinently forbade their children to leave the house on any pretext whatever, the roads were watched for miles, and all cars were stopped and searched, to the intense annoyance of many law-abiding citizens. But Grimes did not turn up. Bets were slyly made among the prisoners as to the day of his recovery, but days passed, and rations of bread changed hands, but still there was no Grimes.</p>
			<p>A week later at morning service the Chaplain prayed for his soul: the Governor crossed his name off the Body Receipt Book and notified the Home Secretary, the Right Honourable Sir Humphrey Maltravers, that Grimes was dead.</p>
			<p>‘I’m afraid it was a terrible end,’ said the Chaplain to Paul.</p>
			<p>‘Did they find the body?’</p>
			<p>‘No, that is the worst thing about it. The hounds followed his scent as far as Egdon Mire; there it ended. A shepherd who knows the paths through the bog found his hat floating on the surface at the most treacherous part. I’m afraid there is no doubt that he died a very horrible death.’</p>
			<p>‘Poor old Grimes!’ said Paul. ‘And he was an old Harrovian, too.’</p>
			<p>But later, thinking things over as he ate peacefully, one by one, the oysters that had been provided as a ‘relish’ for his supper, Paul knew that Grimes was not dead. Lord Tangent was dead; Mr. Prendergast was dead; the time would even come for Paul Pennyfeather, but Grimes, Paul at last realized, was of the immortals. He was a life force. Sentenced to death in Flanders, he popped up in Wales; drowned in Wales, he emerged in South America; engulfed in the dark mystery of Egdon Mire, he would rise again somewhere at some time, shaking from his limbs the musty integuments of the tomb. Surely he had followed in the Bacchic train of distant Arcady, and played on the reeds of myth by forgotten streams, and taught the childish satyrs the art of love? Had he not suffered unscathed the fearful dooms of all the offended gods of all the histories, fire, brimstone and yawning earthquakes, plague and pestilence? Had he not stood, like the Pompeian sentry, while the Citadels of the Plain fell to ruin about his ears? Had he not, like some grease-caked Channel-swimmer, breasted the waves of the Deluge? Had he not moved unseen when darkness covered the waters?</p>
			<p>‘I often wonder whether I am blameless in the matter,’ said the Chaplain. ‘It is awful to think of someone under my care having come to so terrible an end. I tried to console him and reconcile him with his life, but things are so difficult, there are so many men to see. Poor fellow! To think of him alone out there in the bog, with no one to help him!’</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
